



XIM UNIVERSITY







DOCTORAL PROGRAM (PhD) - FULL-TIME MANUAL OF POLICIES









Office of the Vice-Chancellor XJM University Bhubaneswar



CONTENTS

Pg.No.University Mission, Vision & Values1Doctoral Program Goals and Objectives3General Definitions4Doctoral Program Overview5Doctoral Prot;.'l·am Process Steps in Detail7Rules related to Pro1,'l·am Enrolment10Rules related to Academic Coursework13Rules related to the Thesis Stage19Rules related to Thesis Re!,-istration27Rules related to Submission of Thesis & Defense30Rules related to the Pro1,'l"ess Reporting37Rules related to the Program Continuation39Rules related to the Bvaluation42Rules related to Doctoral Activities15Rules related to Research Ethics and Plai;.-iarism19Rules related to Resources Management51Applicability of the Rules52Annexure - I: Rxternal Bxpert53Annexure - II: Support Committees54Annexure - JII: Select Program Exhibits55Aunexure - IV: Fees and Financial Aids56Annexure - V: Rules Related to Discipline and Misconduct58Annexure - VI: Doctoral Re-Registration62
































XIM UNIVERSITY

XI.M University sees itself as a global university delivering quality education to deserving meritorious students. The XIM University affirms its mission of excellent quality higher
education.



VISION

"'l'o be a leading global Jesuit university, innovative in academia, grooming compassionate and resilient leaders to lead organisations for a just, equitable and sustainable society".



MISSION

In the spirit of 1'1agis, XIM University strives to:

Promote innovation in learning and the total ecosystem.
Nurture multidisciplinary thinking and lead next practice research.
Serve society by empowering all sections of society.
Lead digital thinking in social and developmental issues.
F:stablish trust in the higher education arena.



VALUES

Integrity	Excellence	Inclusiveness	Compassion	Sustainability



XIM UNIVERSITY

A Brief History


The Government of Odisha and the Odisha Jesuit Society in 1987 entered a "Social Contract" which led to the establishment of the Xavier Institute of Management. Xavier Institute of Management is acknowledged internationally as a world class business school which provides quality management proi;.'l·ams and develops futuristic managers and leaders with strong ethics and value.5. Owing to its unique quality, brand and academic rigour, in its endeavour to take up the tasks which are bold but necessary and which hitherto nobody has taken up, Xavier Institute of Management rose to meet the need for quality education in the state and country and founded the Xavier University. The Xavier University came into being with the Government of Odisha passing the Xavier University, Odisha, Act, 2013 and the New Campus was inaugurated on ,July 7, 20l4. Subsequently, the stakeholders felt that the University would be better served by taking the name of its founding unit and the Xavier University, through an act of leb'lslature, became the XIM University.

XTM University is created to encompass variety and depth in the functional areas of management, technology, and leadership, in the knowledge space of higher education. The ident.ity of the University is distinguished by its philosophy of 'Inspiring Futures' by not just walking the well-t.rodden path but striking out and exploring new paths. The University also has a clear intent to be the first to respond to the needs of society and enable the building of sustainable communities that inspire the future of the state and the country, serving as an active agent of change. As a result, it is the first university to meet the need and demand of sustainability by establishing a School of Sustainability.

The University offers unique courses at the Undergraduate, Masters and at the Ph.Tl. level and has established schools like the School of Human Settlements, School of Governance and Public Affairs, Masters in Business Finance and others. XIM University believes in education in the spirit of 'Magis', which means to dream more, to have a great vision and to be more as a whole person, for others while enabling people to live extraordina,·y lives.


T-Te who	goes <ibout t.o reform the world must begin with himself, or he loses his l<ibour.

Ignatius of Loyola


DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY (PHD) PROGRAM

The Doctoral Program (PhD) is intended to prepare the students for research and teaching positions both within and outside academia. Our PhD students are expected to be specialists in their respective fields and capable of generating new knowledge that contributes to the development of the field.

The proi;.'Tam draws upon Indian and global experience in doctoral education. The proi;.'l·am is also designed to serve as a venue for nurturing various academic debates concerning resem·ch acl'oss the l'elevant domains. The program structul'e includes a significant component of research training, facilitated by both in-house and visiting researchers.

PhD students are expected to develop deep understanding in the areas of research selected by them. They also get a structured exposure to a range of topics, develop relevant skills, and participate in XIM University's academic life and activities.


PROGRAM GOALS, AIM, AND OB,JEC'l'IVE

GOALS

1. To demonstrate excellence and intei,,'Tity in research through research t.raining, orii,,>inal research, and dissemination.
2. To facilitate research entrepreneurship wherein PhD students are encouraged to explore t.hemselves, ask questions, actively seek peers' feedback, build conviction in their ideas with peers in specific and society in general.
3. To prepare PhD students for academic or indust.ry positions in the respective field of choice.


AIM
The doctoral program at XIM University aims to create a scholarly person who is capable of fitting into appropriate roles in academia or practice. The program aims to inculcate the desired competencies to prepare the Phfl students for the future.


OBJECTIVE
The objective of the doctoral program is to develop the PhD student's qualifications for work at an acceptable standard of competence. The program's main component is an independent piece of research at an adequate level. Thereby, PhD students are expected to develop a deep grounding in the study they pursue.


GENERAL DEFINITIONS

In thii; MoP, unless the context otherwise specifies, the following terms shall be as defined below.
• Area: Areas are constituent units of schools at XIM University. This comprises of a specialized unit or group of faculty-members.
• Area coordinator: Area coordinator is a faculty-member of the area designated for this role.
• Associate Dean (Doctoral Program): S/he is responsible for the overall administration of the doctoraI program.
• Campus: Campus means either or both the campuses of XTM University namely Old Campus and New Campus.
• Centers: Centers are units at XTM University carrying out different research, consultancy, and training related activities in various domains. PhD students may pursue their research with any of these centers.
• Controller of Examinations: This refers to the Controller of Examinations (CoE) of XIM University.
• Co-guide: Co-guide is the designated person who works together in supervising the research work of PhD students. Co-guide is assigned in case there is requirement of substantial involvement of a second advisor.
• Dean: Dean refers to Deans of Schools of XIM University.
• Doctoral Program Committee: 'l'his refers to the Doctoral Program Committee (DPC) of XIM University constituted to coordinate the doctoral program. Associate Dean (Doctoral Program) assumes the chair of the TJPC.
• Doctoral Program Advisory Board: Doctoral Program Advisory Board (DPAB) consists of external members who are thought leaders, academicians, and/or scholars in various domains. DPC members are ex-ofiicio members of the DPAB.
• DRS Facilitator: The faculty member of XIM University assist.ing the PhD student in
preparing for the Domain Review Seminar.
• External Expert: S/he is an expert not belonging to the TAC of the PhD student in concern. S/he can be a faculty member belonging to a different area/ school/ institution or a practitioner. 'l'he external expert will be part of the evaluation committee in PhD seminars.
• Guide: Guide is the designated person who supervises the research work of PhD students.
• PhD Students: All students enrolled in the doctoral programs of XIM University.
• School Research Committee (SRC): The School Research Committee (SRC) consists of Dean (of school) as ex-officio member and Chairperson, and 2 to 8 faculty members in order to assist in school research and doctoral program.
• Thesis Advisory Committee: Thesis Advisory Committee (TAC) comprises of members including the guide/co-guide (if applicable) who provide guidance on different aspects to the PhD student.
• Thesis Examination Committee: The committee that is formed to examine the Doctoral thesis constituting of both internal and external examiners.


Doctoral Program Ove1·view

1. TITLE

Upon successful completion of all the components and clearing the final thesis examination, a PhD student becomes eligible to be considered for the conferment of the title: "Doctor of
Philosophy in 	,,(Annexure-III). The degree is conferred during the
convocation at the end of the academic session following successful program completion.

2. PROGRAM FOCUS
The doctoral program has three primary focus areas
• Research training:
o Thedoctoral program is aimed at training students in the philosophy and process of research. The mandatory course work, participation in research seminars and research presentations enable the scholar to learn research culture and values as well as different re.5earch methodologies and practices.
• Doing Original Research
o Scholars have to do original research that is based on a rigorous review ofliterature, identification of gaps and f'ormulat.ion of a research question that will cont.ribute to the field of study.
• Research dissemination
o Scholars are required to disseminate their findings and learning through publications and by presenting papers in conferences or equivalent forum.

3. AREAS OF SPECIALIZATION
The doctoral program offers speciali7.ation to students in different areas under the school to which the PhD student has registered. The program also encourages inter-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary research. The listing of areas of research in available in the doctoral program web-page under XTM University https://xirn.edu.in/

4. CATEGORIES OF PHD STUDENTS
The PhD students joining the pr0b'Tam can have the following pre-qualifications:
I. '!'hose joining after a Masters/Equivalent Degree (Category-I): These candidates will proceed with the Doctoral Coursework.
II. Those joining after a 4-Year Degree program (Category-U): 'l'hese candidates will need go through the Pre-Docto.-al Coursework.

5. PROGRAM STRUCTURE
Pre-Doctoral Coursework (only for Category-II Candidates): In the first year, the Category-II PhD students wilJ participate in the pre-doctoral coursework as recommended by the School Research Committee. On satisfactory completion of course work and meeting the qualifying standards (Section 11), the PhD student will be allowed to proceed.
Doctoral Coursework: This will involve research focused coursework which are specially designed to provide teaching & research skills. The coursework will broadly involve the courses as specified (Annexure-Ill). Additionally, workshops will be organized as per requirements.


Comprehensive Qualifying Examination (CQE): The comprehensive qualifying examination will be conducted after the successful completion of course work. The objective of the CQE is to assess the capability of the student to undertake comprehensive research work in ones area of specialization. After successful completion of CQE, the student will proceed to the Thesis Stage.
Thesis Stage: In this stage, the PhD student identifies and works on a thesis topic works the guidance of the Thesis Advisory Committee (TAC) (Section 25). The PhD student must present a number of seminars in this stage (Section 17). After the PhD student successfully defends the thesis proposal, the registration of the topic takes place (thesis registration). Beyond that the student works closely with the TAC on his/her thesis. On completion of the thesis, the student submits the thesis and defends the same.
The scholar is conferred the title (Annexure-III) on successful completion of all the requirements of the thesis.

6. DURATION
6.1. An academic year shall be considered from ,July till end of June next year for all reporting purposes.
6.2. The doctoral program is for a minimum duration of three (3) years and a maximum duration of six (6) years following doctoral registration (refer to process maps below).
6.3. A maximum of an additional two (2) years can be 1,,>iven through a process of re­ registration; provided, however, that the total period for completion of the program should not exceed eight (8) years following doctoral re1,,>istration.
Female Ph.Tl. students and Persons with Tlisabilitie. (having rnore than 40% disability) can be allowed an additional relaxat-ion of two (2) years; however, the total period for completion in such cases should not exceed ten (10) years doctoral re1,,>istration.
6.4. For Category-T students: 'l'he first year will be spent on doctoral coursework, and the remaining years for completing subsequent steps leading to t.he doctoral thesis.
6.5. For Category-II students: In the first year, the students will be required to attend the pre-doctoral coursework that are pre. cribed by the Research Committee of the school. The doctoral coursework will commence from 2nd year onwards.
6.6. A scholar who is unable to complete the program within the specified timelines will be de-re1,,>istered from the pro1,,'Tam.

7. FEES & FINANCIAL AIDS
7.l. TheProgram Fee, if applicable, is as communicated separately. This does not include boarding and lodging charges while residing on campus.
Select students admitted to the programme may be the recipient of the University Sponsored Scholarship (subject to his/her not receiving any other funds from any other sources).
7.2. The students staying on campus will be provided with accommodation. Except students who are granted University Sponsored Scholarship, all other students will need to pay for the residential expenses as per the prevalent rate. The mess expenses as per actuals will have to be borne by all students themselves.
7.3. The financial aspects and general conditions are given in Annexure-IV.



PROCESS MAP OF THE DOCTORAL PROGRAM (FOR CATEGORY-I STUDENTS)

1.PhD AdmissionsWill be done in line with academic parameters set by the Doctoral Program Committee2.Doctoral Registration Induction & Orientation(Commencement of the Program)
• Registration to the doctoral program shall take pla.ce on the stipulaled date.
• Induction & Orient<ition shall provide introduction to XIM University Q,IUl its schools, Doctoral Program, Process, and Policies.3.Doctoral Coursework (Phases I, II, III)• Phase I: (Around) 3 Months
• Phase II: (Around) 3 Months
• Phase III (domain-specific): (Around) 1 Months4.Comprehensive Qualifying Examination (CQE)(By End of 1"' Year)
• The objective is	to assess the suitability of the PhD student t,0 carry out ir1,dependent research worli
• The Thesis Stage starts oa successful clearaace of CQR5.DOMAIN REVIEW SEMINAR (DRS)(\Vithin 1.5 Years of Doctoral Registration)
The objective u; to conduct a.n initial literature review
coaceraing the domoin{s) co11.cem.ed.6.Guide Registration• Within one month of successfully delivering DRSRegistration of Guide/ Co-Guide7.TAC Registration Within three months of guide registrationFormation of'l'hesis Advisory Committee (in discussion with Guide/Co-Guide)8.DRAFT PROPOSAL SEMINAR (DPS)Between TAC registration and TPS (it is not a mandatory seminar)9.THESIS PROPOSAL SEMINAR (TPS)(\Vithin 2 Years of Doctoral Registration)
• The objective is to present and defe1ul the thesis proposal.
• Thesis Uegistration toiles place after the PhD student successfully defends the thesis proposal.10.PROGRESS REVIEW SEMINAR (PRS)• At/east one seminar needs to be presented every _year in the Thesis Stage.
• DRS, DPS wul TPS will be considered as PRS for the respective years in which they are <lelivered.11.THESIS SUBMISSION SEMINAR (TSS)Final Draft of Thesis to be presented for an Internal Examination

12.THESIS DEFENSE EXAMINATION (TDE)(Within Approved Duration (As Per Section 6))
Thesis Seminar & Viva voce* PhD students who wish to may register their DRSfacilitator as their Guide at the time of DRS facilitator registration (Section 18)

PROCESS MAP OF THE DOCTORAL PROGRAM (FOR CATEGORY-II STUDENTS)

1.PhD AdmissionsWill be done in line with academic parameters set by the Doctoral Prot:,>Tam Committee2.Induction &
Orientation(Commencement of the Program)
Induction & Orientation shall provide introduction to XTM
Unic1ersity and its schools, Doctoral Program., Process, and
Policies.3.Pre-Doctoral Coursework(1•• Year) [school-specific pre-doctoral coursework calendar] On satisfactory completion the PhD st1ulent will be allowed to proceed further.4.Doctoral Registration(Start of 2nd Year)
Regi.stration t,0 the doctoro.l progro.m shall tahc place 011. the stipulated date.5.Doctoral Coursework (Phases I, II, III)• Phase T: (2nd year) (Around) 3 Months
• Phase TT: (2nd year) (Around) 3 Months
• Phase III (domain-specific): (2nd year) (Around) 1 Months6.Comprehensive Qualifying Examination (CQE)(By End of 2nd Year)
• 'I'he objectiue is to o.ssess the suitability of the PhD student
to can:y 01it indepe,ulent research work
• 'I'he 'l'hesis Stage starts on snccessful clearance of CQF;7.DOMAIN REVIEW SEMINAR (DRS)(Within 1.5 Years of Doctoral Registration)
?'he objectiue is /,(I co,uluct OIL initial literature review concerning the domain(s) concerned.8.Guide Registration' Within one month of successfully delivering
DRSRegistration of Guide/ Co-Guide9.TAC Registration Within three months of guide registrationFormation of'l'hesis Advisory Committee (in discussion with Guide/Co-Guide)10.DRAFT PROPOSAL SEMINAR (DPS)Between TAC registi-ation and TPS (it is not a mandatory seminar)

11.THESIS PROPOSAL SEMINAR (TPS)(Within 2 Years of Doctoral Registration)
• The objective is to present and clefend the thesis proposa.t.
• Thesis Regist,-ation takes place after the PhD student successfu.ll.Y defends the thesis proposal.12.PROGRESS REVIEW SEMINAR (PRS)• Atleast one semi,uir needs to be presented every _year in the Thesi;; Stage.
• DRS, DPS a.rut TPS	will be considered as PRS  for the
respective years in which they are delivered.13.THESIS SUBMISSION SEMINAR (TSS)Final Draft of Thesis to be presented for an Internal Examination14.THESIS DEFENSE EXAMINATION (TDE)(Within Approved Duration (As Per Section 6))
Thesis Seminar & Viva. <1oce* PhD students who wish to may register their DRS facilitator as their Guide at the time of DRSfacilitator rei,-istration (Section 18)


Rules related to Program Enrolment

8. DEAN OF SCHOOLS
Every PhD student will be registered with a school of XIM University based on his/her primary area of interest.
Role of Dean of Schools:
8.1. The Dean shall suggest academic parameters governing admission of PhD students to
the Doctoral Proi;.'l·am Committee
8.2. The Dean shall facilitate requests related to coursework modalities received from students and make decisions as deemed appropriate.
8.3. The Dean shall issue certificate of coursework completion for PhD students enrolled in the school as per the recommendation of the Controller of Examinations.
8.4. The Dean shall be responsible for approving Guide(s), TAC for all the PhD students enrolled in the school.
8.5. The Dean shall be responsible for registrat.ion of the research topic based on recommendation received from TAC following thesis proposal delivered by PhD students enrolled in the school.
8.6. The Dean is expected to attend all the seminars delivered by the PhD student at XTM University. In case the Dean is unable to attend, s/he shall nominate faculty member(s) for the purpose.
8.7. •rhe Dean or the nominee shall serve as a member of evaluation committee and provide the final recommendations on the CQE and on t.he mandatory seminars: DRS, TPS, 'l'SS delivered by a PhD student.
8.8. The Dean may examine the 6-monthly proi;,'Tess reports that aresubmitted by the PhD student and recommend actions as deemed appropriate.
8.!J. 'l'he Dean shall examine the expected thesis completion timeline information submitted by the PhD student to decide if the PhD student can be permitted any extension tocontinue with the dissertation work.
8.10. The Dean shall appoint the external expert to be part of the evaluation committee in seminars delivered by a PhD student.
8.11. 'I'he Dean in consultation with the scholars' Guide will suggest the names and contact details of at least ten potential external examiners, in order of preference. The Dean will also identify the potential internal examiner(s).
8.12. The Dean shall convene meeting to discuss review comments received from examiners for PhD students enrolled in the school. If thesis is revised, the Dean in consultation with the internal examiner shall certify that the comments have been suitably addressed.


8.13. Under usual circumstances the Dean shall be the Chair of the Thesis Examination Committee (TEC) and preside over the evaluation process.
8.14. The Dean should be informed in all cases requiring a change in administrative or academic processes related to PhD students enrolled in the school. The decision of the Dean in all such cases shall be final.
8.15. The Dean shall address issues of indiscipline, misconduct, grievances, and conflicts on part of PhD students as per the stated procedures.

9. PhD ADMISSION UNDER A SCHOOL OF XIM UNIVERSITY

9.1. All PhD students must take admission in person on the date specified in the admission offer letter.
9.2. All original certificates will be verified during admission. Tn case original certificates m-e not available at the time of verification, provisional certificates will have to be shown.
9.3. All PhD students will be enrolled in the doctoral program under any of the schools of
XIM University.
9.4. The choice of the school in which the PhD student enrolls will be determined by the scholar's area of interest, as indicated at t.he time of applying for the doctoral prO!,'Tam.
9.5. For  Category-I  students,  their  re!,'istration  in  the  Doctoral Program  (doctoral
registration) will also take place at the time of admission.

9.6. For Category-TT students, once they complete the requirements of the pre-doctoral coursework (Sect.ion 11) successfully, the doctoral registration shall take place.
9.7. Change of Area / School

9.7.1. A PhTl student may be allowed to proceed with a change request at any point prior to the Thesis Stage.
9.7.2. The PhD student needs to get the approval of the area coordinator of the area to which s/he wants to make the change (if applicable) and the dean of the concerned school. S/he also needs to obtain a no-objection from the area coordinator of the exjsting school (if applicable) and dean of the existing school that s/he is permitted to make the change.
9.7.3. In case the PhD student requests for the change of area/school before commencement of Phase-III coursework, s/he will need to do the Phase-III coursework in the new area/domain which s/he has opted for.
9.7.4. In case the PhD student requests for the change of area/school after Phase-III coursework s/he is required to redo the following (as applicable)
o Phase-Ill coursework in the new area/school


o Comprehensive Qualifying Examination (pertaining to Phase-III specific components)
9.7.5. In case, the PhD student's request for a change of area/school is not approved, s/he needs to continue in the existing area/school s/he has been admitted.
9.7.6. Any exception will be dealt with in a case to case basis.


10. ALLOCATION OF ACADEMIC ADVISOR [CURRENTLY NOT APPLICABLE)

10.1. Each PhD student will be assigned an Academic Advisor from the school wheres/he has enrolled.
10.2. The Dean or faculty members nominated by the Dean may serve as Academic Advisors of PhD students enrolled with the school
10.3. Role of an Academic Advisor:

10.3.1. The Academic Advisor will coordinate t.he doctoral program activities at the School level and mentor the student till the DRS Facilitator is identified and the DRS Facilitator regist.ration process is completed.
10.3.2. The Academic Advisor will facilitate the DRS Facilitator identification process by asking PhD students to meet different faculty members and explore their intel'est areas.
10.3.3. The Academic Advisor is expected to attend the seminars delivered by the student as a PhD student at XIM University.
10.3.1. The Academic Advisor should facilitate the administrative requirements oft.he student (e.g. leave of absence, discontinuation, etc.) and other requirements (e.g. application for taking up teaching assignments, etc.) till the point of registration of the DRS Facilitator for the PhD student.
10.3.5. It is recommended that the student meets his/her Academic Advisor at regular intervals.


Rules related to Academic Coursework

11. PRE-DOCTORAL COURSEWORK

11.1. Category-II students will have to attend select courses offered in other programs in the University.
11.2. The objective of this coursework is for getting an overall understanding of the knowledge components that characterize the school to which a PhD student has enrolled, and a.lso better appreciation in the area of specialization.
11.3. The set of courses that the PhD student will have to ta.lee will be as per the recornrnendations of the School Research Committee (SRC) (Annexure-lI).
11.4. The coursework and credit structure (rnin, max) are as presented in the table below. The minimum credit requirements for candidates with a 1-Year Bachelor's de1,,'l·ee (honors) and 4-Yea,· Bachelor's degree (honours with re.5earch) are different as the table showcases.

HonsHons (with Research)

Minimum Coursework Credits to includei\ssib'lled Com·sework (as specified by school)2-'ferm Papers (each 4 Credits)Minimum: 38 CreditsMinimum: 30 Credits
Maximum Coursework Credits to include*
Additional Coursework and Term Papers (recommended by school research committee/ opted by student)* ?'he credit limits (mo:cim.wn) will be decided by the school
11.5. 'fhe attendance policy, evaluation components, assessments and grading shall follow the formats as specified by the com·se instructors, and the examination rules governing the concerned courses.
ll.6.Matters pertaining to Category-II students during the coursework shall be governed by Student Manual of Policies (PG/UC-Level Courses as applicable), and any considerations made to that effect. In case of any conflict, clauses in the Doctoral MoP or decisions conveyed to the PhD student by the appropriate authority (i.e. SRC I Dean
/ Associate Dean (Doctoral Program)) shall be binding.

11.7. Qualifying Standards:
11.7.1. In order to proceed, a PhD student has to obtain a Cumulative Quality Point Index (CQPI) of not less than 6.0 on a 10-point scale at the end of the prescribed coursework.


11.7.2. This shall not include performance in any other courses/components other that what has been specified by the SRC.
11.7.3. Students who secure an "F' Grade in any course will get a chance to appear in a Supplementary Examination for that course.
l 1.7.4.A student whose cotm,ework remains incomplete or who fails to secure the CQPI above at the end of the year will need to repeat the pre-doctoral coursework. Students who fail to achieve the qualifying CQPJ even after two years will be de-registered.
l l.7.5.Only after meeting the qualifying standards, the Category-TT student will be allowed to proceed, and the doctoral reb'1Stration shall take place subsequently.

12. SUMMER PROJECT/RESEARCH PROJECT
12.1. Category-II students may either opt for an industry summer internship or may carry out independent studies based on recornrnendations by the SRC at the end of pre­ doctoral coursework.
12.2. In case the Category-II student opts fort.he summer internship, the student may make the necessary arrangement on their own or rnay take assistance from the University for ananb>ing t.he same.

13. DOCTORAL COURSE WORK:

There are 3 phases of doctoral course work t.hat the PhD student will have to unde1take as described below.

Phase 1Course work [(Around) 3 Months].  Classes / courses will be conducted as
announcedPhase 2Course work
((Around) 3 Months].  Classes / courses will be conducted as
announcedPhase 3Domain Specific Study ((At·ound) 4 Months)• Assigned study,	exposing	students  to
education/ pedagogy / teaching, related to
the field of study.
• Scholars need to follow the cou,·se outline detailing on the pedagogy specified by the
course instructor.
• Evaluation of assigned deliverables is expected to take place at specified slots within Phase 3 duration.
• Scholars are also expected to begin study on their area of research interest.

13.1. All PhD students are required to complete the doctoral coursework as specified (Annexure-111). Phase 3 coursework may also include additional UGC (University Grant Council) recognized online courses that has been recommended by the school where the PhD student has registered.
13.2. The credit requirement for the doctoral coursework is from a minimum of 12 credits to a maximum of 18 credits. The exact number of credits will be based on the total number of courses the PhD student finally undergoes as a part of the coursework.
13.3. The purpose of this component is to expose PhD students to the basic cu1Ticulum of the field of study and a variety of pedagogical approaches followed in academics and teaching.
13.4. During doctoral coursework, the PhD students will also get an understanding of research thrusts at the school, faculty research interests and areas, emerging/potential areas of research, and standards expected.
13.G.The attendance policy for such courses shall follow the rules prescribed (Section 42).
13.6. If a PhD student fails to satisfy the coursework requirements, s/he will get a chance to complete it the next time when offered. Only one chance to complete the coursework requirements is allowed, failing the student will be de-reb>istered from the doctoral program.
13.7. •rhe evaluation components, assessments and grading of the courses belonging to Phase-I and Phase-II doctoral coursework shall follow the formats as specified by t.he course instructors.
13.8. The final evaluation of the Phase-III doctoral coursework is Pi\SS/FJ\IL.

13.9. Credit-Hour Equivalence:

Type of CourseCreditContact Hours Preparatory Hours (atleast)Lecture Based (rheory / Case)11G Hours30 HoursLab / Rxercise130 Hours60 HoursSeminar / Reading Based17.5 Hours60 Hours• The table above indicates the classroom/virtual student-instructor contact hours and minimum expected preparatory hours (outside contact hours) for each 1 credit of doctoral coursework of the type that will be offered.
• The preparatory hours are expected to be utilized in reading, research, assignments and/or activities related to the course.
• Each course offered in the doctoral coursework shall belong to atleast one of these types. The course-outlines/instructors shall clarify the type of the course, and the credit-hour equivalence as tabulated shall be applicable.


13.10. Examination and Evaluation:

13.10.1. For courses that include an end-term component, the PhD student is required to appear for the end-term examination.
13.10.2. End-term examinations for Phase-I courses will be conducted during Phase-I, and those for Phase-TT courses will be conducted during Phase-II.
13.10.3. The minimum requirement to pass a course is 55% in aggregate, based on the evaluation criteria defined by the course instructor.
13.10.4. If a student fails to achieve the required pass marks, s/he may be permitted to appear for a re-examination only once. This re-examination will include the component. where the student did not meet the requirement. . or as otherwise deemed appropriate by the course instructor.
13.10.5. However, if the PhD student fails the re-examination, s/he will be allowed to repeat the coursework the next time it is offered. This will be considered the final opportunity to meet the coursework requirements, in accordance with Clause 13.6 above.
13.10.6. Publication of results will be done by the Controller of Examinat.ions, XIM University.
13.10.7. Certificate of completion of coursework will be issued by the Dean as per the recommendation of the Controller of F.xaminations.
13.11. Qualifying Standard:

13.11.1. Tn order to qualify for appearing for the Comprehensive Qualifying Examination (CQE}, a PhD student has to obtain a Cmnulative Quality Point Tndex (CQPT) of not less than 5.5 on a 10-point scale based on the courses during the Doctoral Coursework.
13.11.2. This shall not include performance in any other courses/components other that what has been specified by the SRC.
13.11.3. If a PhD student fails to meet the specified CQPI requirement, s/he will need to repeat the coursework next time when offered. Only one chance of repeat in the course(s) is allowed.
13.11.4. If the PhD student fails to meet the specified CQPI requirement even in the 2nd attempt, s/he will be de-registered from the doctoral program.

14. ADDITIONAL COURSE WORK
14.1. The DRS Facilitator (prior to Guide registration) (Section 18) or the TAC (Section 25) may recommend additional course work for the PhD student.
14.2. The additional courses can he separate doctoral courses or available in other formats.


14.3. The DRS Facilitator or the Guides(s) (on behalf of the TAC) need to communicate details of such course and additional information (as requested) to the doctoral program office which will then go through approval procedure as followed by the University.
14.4. The assessment procedure of such com-ses shall follow the structure prescribed for the Phase-III doctoral coursework.
14.5. AUDITING COURSES:
• PhD students have the option of auditing courses as part of the regular coursework (pre-doctoral/ doctoral) or the additional coursework. This possibility also includes auditing the Phase-HTdoctoral coursework offered in other schools/areas.
• Tn order to audit courses, the PhD student needs to have the approvals of the SRC. If auditing is a part of the additional coursework, that needs to have consent of the DRS facilitator/ TAC, and the Dean. Tn addition, the PhD student has to obtain the consent of the course instructor(s).
• The attendance policy, evaluation component-5, assessments shall follow the formats as specified in the courses being audited or as desired by the instructors.
• Tn case the PhD student participates in the course evaluation components, the final evaluation will be recorded as Pi\SS/Fi\IL.

15. COURSE WAIVER

15.1. A student may be granted waiver in respect of a mandatory course, provided the SRC is satisfied thats/he has adequate knowledge of the course.
15.2. 'l'o obtain a course waiver, the PhD student needs to submit an application for waiver to the SRC along with all support.ing documents as requested.
15.3. The decision of the SRC in such cases will be final.
15.4. Given that a PhD student has been granted course waiver in a courses/he stands exempted from attending the classes in that co\ll'se. However, if the course instructor/SRC recommends (or if the student voluntarily opts), sihe will need to participate in course evaluation components and will be graded based on the performance. Tn these cases, the course will be considered as a part of the students' final mark sheet.
15.5. If a PhD student has been granted com·se waivers in select course(s), s/he may also choose to enrolJ in alternate courses / term papers / etc. The student will need to ensure that s/he atleast meets the minimum credit requirements specified for the coursework.

16. COMPREHENSIVE QUALIFYING EXAMINATION (CQE)

16.1. The objective is to assess the suitability of the PhD student to carry out independent research work.


16.2. The SRC shall constitute a Comprehensive Examination Committee (CEC) comprising of select faculty members to administer the CQE. The Dean or a nominee shall assume the role of the Chair of the CEC.
16.3. The CEC shall specify the coverage of CQE for the concerned PhD student which may also include additional set of readings.
16.4. The CQE format can consist of written examination/ viva voce /presentation/ report
I etc., or any combinations of these, as decided and communicated by the CEC.
16.5. In case the CQE requires the PhD student to prepare a write-up/report, it is the responsibility of the student toensure that thecontent adheres to the rules related to research ethics and pla1,>im-ism (Section 54).
16.6. Each CEC Panel Member needs to individually evaluate the PhD student on the components relevant as per the CQE format adopted.
16.7. The CQE needs to be completed by end of the academic year involving the doctoral coursework.
16.8. The Thesis Stage shall commence on successful clearance of CQE.
16.9. Qualifying Standard:
16.9.1. The GEC Chair shall provide the final recommendation on the CQE based on the evaluation received from the CEG Panel Members.
16.9.2. The PhTl student needs to receive a recommendation equivalent of PASS in order to clear the CQE requirements.
16.9.3. Tf the recommendation is a REPEAT or a FATL, the PhD student will again need to appear for a re-examination in not later than 6 months.
16.9.1. A reconstituted Comprehensive Examination Committee will conduct the re­ examination.
16.9.5. If a PhD student fails to qualify in the second attempt, he/she will be de­ registered from the doctoral program.


Rules related to the Thesis Stage

17. RESEARCH REVIEW SEMINARS

17.1. This comprises of the Domain Review Seminar (DRS), Draft Proposal Seminar (DPS), Thesis Proposal Seminar (TPS), Progress Review Seminar (PRS), and Thesis Submission Seminar (TSS).
17.2. PhD students are required to present a minimum of one research review seminar in each academic year of the program.
17.3. PhD students are encouraged to present additional seminars, other than the annual
mandatory one. . as that would give them comment. and feedback on their research process and journey.
17.4. Atleast 5 working days before each seminar, the PhD students should communicate a self-written paper (of an appropriate length) to the doctoral program office which will beshared with the intended recipients.
17.5. This paper will contain the content of the seminar that is to be presented. It should be written following the usual norms of academic writing and use the APA format.
17.6. The paper needs to adhere to the rules related to research ethics and pla1,,,jarism
(Section 51).
17.7. Additionally the PhD student needs to be adhere to the norrns of attendance (Section
12) till the point of consideration before they are allowed to deliver a seminar,
17.8. Tn every seminar, the PhD student should collect both oral and written feedback from the audience present, and submit copies oft.he written feedback at the doctoral program office, as a record of the event.
17.9. For all such research review seminars, feedback is collected and reply to comments is submitted by student to the TAC.
17.10. The overview of each research review seminar are in the table below.



SEMINAR & TIME
FRAMEOVERVIEWDOMAIN REVIEW SEMINAR (DRS).
.
.Seminar reflecting an understanding of the field that thescholar wishes to study, the initial literature review, and the potential topic.
Must be attended by DRS Facilitator, Dean or a nominee.
'Bvaluation will be done by an independent committee. Dean or a nominee shall provide the final recommendations.Within 1.5 years of doctoral registrationDRAPI' PROPOSAL.
.
.171.is seminar is not ma,ul.a.tory.
Scholar will present the literature review, gaps identified and the possible research question(s).
However scholars are encouraged to present a DPS as that
would give them feedback for the TPS.SEMINAR (DPS)Atleast one month priorto delivering TPSTHESIS PROPOSAL SEMINAR (TPS).Presentation of Final topic, Literature Review, Gaps Identified, Research Questions, Methodology and Research Plan.


by the end of 2 years from doctoral registration• Must be attended by Guide, Co-guide (if any), TAC members, External expert, Dean or a nominee.
• Evaluation will be done by the persons above.PROGRESS REVIEW SEMINAR (PRS)• A minimum of 1 seminar to be presented every year in the Thesis Stage.
• DRS, DPS and TPS will be considered as PRS for the respective years in which they are delivered.
• Subsequent to the TPS, in each seminar, the scholal' will synthesize and present all the work that she/he has done since the pl'evious seminal'. It will review progress and will reflect the scholar's increasing depth of learning and insights on the area and topic of research.
• The scholal' will also present hel'/his current stage in the doctoral journey and the plan for the next steps in the process.
• Must be attended by Guide, Co-guide (if any), TAC members, Dean or nominee.To be presentedannuallyTHESIS SUBMISSION SEMINAR (TSS)• Presentation of the thesis in an open seminar before final submission
• Must be attended by Guide, Co-guide (if any), TAC members,
External expert, Dean or nominee
• Rvaluation will be done by the persons above.Tn the final Year

18. DRS FACILITATOR REGISTRATION

18.1. The PhD student will need to reb<ister a DRS (Domain Review Seminar) Facilitator before the student starts working on the Domain Review Seminar.
18.2. A DRS Facilitator needs to be a faculty member of XIM University and adhering to Clauses 20.4 • 20.6 (on guide identification).
18.3. It is recommended that the DRS Facilitator should be from the school and the academic area within which a PhD student wants to do the research.
18.4. Depending upon the needs, a DRS co-Facilitator can also be involved that assist the PhD student in the preparation for DRS. The co-Facilitator is expected to provide additional expertise in areas relevant to the DRS coverage, and thereby complement the expertise provided by the (main) DRS facilitator.
18.5. The co-Facilitatorcan be an industry member or an academician.
18.6. In general, it may be expected that the DRS Facilitator will assume the role of the Guide of a PhD Student at an appropriate stage later.


18.7. Role of DRS Facilitator:

18.7.1. The DRS Facilitator for a PhD student will assist him/her to prepare for the Domain Review Seminar (DRS).
18.7.2. The DRS Facilitator may recommend additional coursework for the PhD student as per the requirements and within any stated constraints.
18.7.3. The DRS Facilitator shall ensure plagiarism check of the DRS document submitted by the PhD student.
18.7.4. The DRS Facilitator shall evaluate the DRS document of the PhD student and communicate evaluation details to the doctoral program office.
18.7.5. It is mandatory for the DRS Facilitator to attend the DRS delivered by the
PhD student.
18.7.6. The DRS Facilitator shall facilitate the administrative requirements of the PhD student (e.g. leave of absence, discontinuation, etc.) and other requirements (e.g. application for taking up teaching assignments, specific learning requirements, etc.).

19. DOMAIN REVIEW SEMINAR (DRS)

Hl.1. The objective of the domain review seminar (DRS) is to assess the PhD student's understanding oft.he field in which she/he will do research.
1!J.2. The DRS needs to be presented after clearing CQB, and within 1.5 years of doctoral
registration.
Hl.3. Before a PhD student can present the DRS, the scholar must submit a write-up describing the potential topic, assodated coverage of the literature, gaps visible, etc.
19.1. The DRS wi·iteup needs to be acceptable to the DRS Facilitator before t.he same can be submitted to the doctoral program office.
19.5. Only after the DRS Facilitator approves the DRS write-up, the DRS is scheduled by
the doctoral program office as per the clauses mentioned in Section 17 (Re- earch Review Seminars).
1!J.6. 'l'he DRS must be attended by the DRS Facilitator, and members of the DRS evaluation committee. Dean, and faculty members from related areas are also expected to attend the seminar.
19.7. F.valuation of the DRS will be done by an Tndependent Committee comprising of atleast three faculty members from related areas who may be nominated by the Dean. The Dean or his/her nominee (when Dean is the potential Guide) shall provide the final recommendation on the DRS based on the evaluation reports received. DRS Facilitator may not be a part of this evaluation committee. However s/he needs to evaluate the DRS seminar document of the PhD student prior to DRS and communicate the same to the doctoral program office.
19.8. The scholar has to obtain a minimum grade of 'Satisfactory' to qualify for the next stage of the doctoral process.
19.9. In case a scholar is unable to obtain a 'Satisfactory' grade in the domain review seminar at the first attempt, she/he will have to redo the DRS once again. This will necessarily involve making changes in the DRS write-up as evident in the


comments/feedback received, and again presenting the domain review seminar within 6 (six) months of communication of DRSevaluation results.
19.10. lf a scholar fails to clear the DRS in the 2"'1 attempt also, slhe will be de-registered
from the doctoral prOl,'l'am.

20. GUIDE IDENTIFICATION & REGISTRATION

20.1. The guide identification and registration process has to be completed within one month of successfully clem-ing the Domain Review Seminar (DRS).
20.2. Tn case the guide identification and registration is triggered because of events stated in Sections 21 (Change of Guide), 22 (Change in Affiliation Status of Guide), 23 (Guide Leaving the University), 01· 24 (Guide Opting to Discontinue), the same needs to be informed to the identified guide.
20.3. The guide shall sign a consent form indicating that she/he consents to be a guide for the doctoral student. The consent form has to be approved by the Dean.
20.4. The Guide should be a full-time confirmed faculty member ofXTM University.
20.G. Any Professor/Associate with a PhD degree and at least five research publications in peer-reviewed or refereed journals and any Assistant Professor with a PhD dei,,'Tee and at least three research publications in peer-reviewed or refereed journals may be recoi,'llized as a Guide subject to meeting Clause 20.1above.
20.6. Any exceptions to the stated clauses above pertaining to guide identification shall require due approvals.
20.7. Tt is strongly recommended that the Guide should be from the academic area within which a PhD student wants to do the research.
20.8. Depending upon requirements, for example, a scholar undertaking an interdisciplinary research, a Co-Guide may be identified. •rhere can be maximum one co-guide for a PhD student.
20.9. A Co-Guide is a faculty (full-time or adjunct) affiliated with XTM University and adhering to Clauses 20.5 - 20.6 or can belong to a different institution.
20.10. Tn case the Co-Guide is a faculty from a different institution, the appointment should be on terms and conditions that are agreed upon by the concerned institution and XTM University.
20.11. At any point of time, a Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor eligible to be a guide at XIM University should not have more than eight (8) / six (6) / four (1) PhD students, respectively, registered for her/his guidance. Guidance refers to the role as guide and co-guide. The limit covers all scholars registered under a faculty within XIM University, as well as outside XlM University.
20.12. Faculty members with less than three years of service before superannuation shall not be al.lowed to take new PhD students under their guidance. However, such faculty members can continue to guide PhD students who are already registered until superannuation and as a Co-Guide after superannuation, but not after attaining the ageof 70 yeal's.
20.13. Role of the Main Guide:

20.13.1. The Guide for a PhD student will guide him/her in the research process.


20.13.2. The guide may recommend additional coursework for the PhD student as per the requirements and within any stated constraints.
20.13.3. The guide shall assist in formation of the Thesis Advisory Committee
(TAC) of the PhD student and recommend names to the Dean
20.13.4. The Guide will serve as the Chairperson of the TAC of the PhD student.
20.13.5. It is mandatory for the Guide to attend all the seminars delivered by the PhD student at XTM University.
20.13.6. The Guide will serve as the member of evaluation committee in all seminars delivered by the PhD student at XTM University.
20.13.7. The Guide needs to examine 6-monthly progress reports and expected
thesis completion timeline information submitted by the PhD student and provide comments.
20.13.8. The Guide shall ensure plagiarism check of all seminar documents
submitted by the PhD student.
20.13.9. i\t the time of submission of thesis by the PhD student, the Guide needs to certify the purpose and originality of the work.
20.13.10. The Guide, in consultation with the Ti\C, will suggest the names and contact details of at least ten potential external examiners, in order of preference, for evaluation of the thesis submitted by the PhD student.
20.13.11. The Guide shall attend the meeting to discuss the review comments received from the external examiners on the thesis submitted by the PhD student. Subsequent to this, s/be shall assist the PhD student in responding to the comments and revising the the is as required.
20.13.12. The Guide shall facilitate the administrative requirements of the PhD student (e.g. leave of absence, discontinuation, etc.) and other requirements (e.g. application for taking up teaching assignments, specific learning requirements, etc.).
20.13.13. In case there are anychanges int.he composit.ion or funct.ioning ofTJ\C, or any changes wrt progress or performance or evaluation requirements of the PhD student or any disciplinary actions recommended/taken, the Guide should inform the TAC and/or Dean as the cases maybe.
20.14. Role of the Co-Guide:

20.14.1. The Co-Guide for a PhD student, along with the Main Guide, will provide the necessary guidance to the PhD student during the research process.
20.14.2. The Co-Guide may recommend additional coursework for the PhD student
as per the requirements and within any stated constraints.
20.14.3. It is mandatory for the Co-Guide to attend all the seminars delivered by the PhD student at XIM University.
20.14.4. The Co-Guide will serve as the member of evaluation committee in all seminars delivered by the PhD student at XIM University.
20.14.5. The Co-Guide shall attend the meeting to discuss the review comments received from the external examiners on the thesis submitted by the PhD student. Subsequent to this, s/be shall assist the PhD student in responding to the comments and revising the thesis as required.


20.14.6. The Co-Guide should provide assistance on any administrative or academic requirements as requested by the Guide(s)/Dean and having a bearing on the PhD student.

21. PHD STUDENT OPTING TO CHANGE GUIDE
21.1. In case a PhD student wants to change or discontinue with his/her guide, s/he needs to first discuss the same with the Guide-in-concern and get his/her approval in writing. Jn cases where thel'e al'e Co-Guides, the student should discuss the same first with the other Guide and then only discuss the same with the Guide considered for change and get the appJ"Oval.
21.2. The Guide being considered for replacement or being discontinued should also inform the same in writing to the Dean.
21.3. Once the above has been approved by the Dean, the PhD student is allowed to opt for another' Guide as pel' the clauses mentioned in Section 20.
21.1. In case there are Co-Guides from XIM University, s/he in this circumstance by
default assumes the role of the Main Guide.
21.G. The PhD student can opt fo,. another' Co-Guide as a replacement in consultation with the new main Guide and following clauses mentioned in Section 20.
21.6. A file note of the change shall be included in the student's file maintained by the doctoral proi,,'l·am office.

22. CHANGE IN AFJ<'ILIA'fION S'fA'fUS 01" GUIDE
22.1. This addresses scenarios where a faculty member (serving as guide(s) of PhD students) of XJM University have a change in affiliation status i.e. becomes adjunct/part-time/visiting etc.
22.2. Jf the scholar l'egistered under the guide-in-concel'n has no other (:0-Guide, the scholar will be instructed to identify a new Main Guide as per the clauses mentioned in Section 20. The new Main Guide can also be somebody from the existing TAC of the scholar. The guide-in-concern can then assume the role of the Co-Guide and be a member of the existing 'l'AC of the scholar.
22.3. If the scholar registered under the l,,Ttlide-in-concern has a Co-Guide from XIM University, the Co-Guide will assume the role of the Main Guide in these cases. The guide-in-concern hence will assume the role of the Co-Guide and be a member of the existing TAC of the scholar.


23. GUIDE LEAVING THE UNIVERSITY
23.1. In case the Gtlide or one of the Guides (in case there are Co-Guides) of a PhD student leaves the university after submission of the doctoral thesis but before the final presentation/ examination of the thesis, an officiating gtlide shall be appointed by the concerned Dean, in cases where there are no Co-Guides from the university.
23.2. In case the Guide or one of the Guides (in case there are Co-Guides) leaves the university before the submission of the doctoral thesis, the Co-Guide (if any) from the


university will assume the role of the Main Guide. In such cases, the new Main guide will be allowed to co-opt another faculty as a co-Guide, if required.
23.3. With respect to Clause 23.2, for cases where there is noco-Guide from the university, the Dean, in consultation with the TAC and research scholar, will appoint another Guide.
23.4. The officiating guide will fulfil all the roles and responsibilities of the Guide as required.

24. GUIDE OPTING TO DISCONTINUE

24.l. Tn case the Guide opts to discontinue as a guide of a PhD student, sfhe should first inform the same to the scholar in concern, and discuss with Co-Guides (if any) and the Dean.
21.2. S/he should provide a note on the discontinuance along with possible reasons to the Guide (in case there are Co-Guide. ) and the Dean. The stated reasons will be kept confidential.
24.3. Tn cases where the reason  behind discontinuance is triggered  by any form of
misconduct on the part of the scholar, the Dean in consultation with TAC may take disciplinary actions against the student, as deemed appropriate. A file note on the same shall be included in the student's file maintained by the doctoral program office.
21.1. If an appointment of a replacement b'llide or an officiating guide is necessary, the same shall follow the clauses mentioned in Section 20.

25. THESIS ADVISORY COMMITTEE (TAC)

25.1. A 1'AC will be constituted for each PhD student within three months of guide registration.
25.2. •rhe Guide in consultation with the PhD student will recommend names for the 1'AC.
25.3. The Dean will approve the TAC.
25.4. The Guide (Main Guide in case of Co-Guides) will be the Chairperson of the TAC.
25.5. Normally, the TAC will consist of three members. In case of PhD students having Co-Guides, the 'l'AC may consist of four members. The members will be chosen so that they contribute to the thesis research in a complementary manner.
25.6. A TAC should not have more than four members including the Guide and Co-Guide (if any).
25.7. An industry expert or an academician from outside of XIM University may also be a
member of the 'l'AC.
25.8. If a TAC member, who is a faculty member of XIM University, retires from XIM University or leaves XIM University he/she may continue to be a TAC member.
25.9. If a TAC member wishes to step down from the TAC of a PhD student, s/he needs to
indicate the same in writing to the Guide of the concerned scholar. The same will then be forwarded to the Dean.
25.10. In the above case, the Guide (in consultation with the scholar) can appoint a
replacing TAC member which will then be processed as per Clauses 25.2 and 25.3 stated above.


25.11. Under normal circumstances, the TAC of a PhD student, once constituted, shall not change till the PhD student completes all the necessary formalities of the dissertation.
25.12. However, if the circumstances demand, the Dean may, in consultation with the student and the Chairperson of the TAC, reconstitute the TAC, including a change in the TAC Chairperson.
25.13. Role of the TAC:

25.13.1. The TAC will provide t-,>uidance on various academic and administrative aspects to the PhD student and will resource any ethical dilemmas that may arise during research.
25.13.2. Whenever there is any such need, the PhD student, in consultation with the Main Guide, can approach the TAC for assistance.
25.13.3. The TAC should assist the Guide(s) on any administrative or academic
requirements as requested by the Guide(s) and having a bearing on the PhD student.
25.13.4. The TAC member$ (other than the Guide and Co-Guide) are expected to
attend all the seminars delivered by the PhD student at XTM University. In case the TAC members are located externally, they can attend such seminars through a suitable communication medium.
25.13.5. If a TAC member (other than the Guide and Co-Guide) is still unable to attend a seminar, s/he shall communicate the same to the Main Guide beforehand, to be forwarded to the Dean for records.
25.13.6. The TAC will perform evaluation of both the document and presentation pertaining to the seminars delivered by the PhD student at XIM University.
25.13.7. Tf a TAC member is unable to attend a seminar, the PhTl student shall forward the seminar presentation to the concerned TAC member after the seminar, and the 1'AC member shall provide the comments on the same to the Main Guide.
25.13.8. Depending upon the outcome of the 'f'PS, the 'f'AC will approve the thesis proposal document and will recommend registration of the research topic.
25.13.9. 'Depending upon the outcome of the TSS, the 'f'AC will recommend submission of thesis for examination.
25.13.10. The TAC member$ (other than the Guide and Co-Guide) are expected to
attend the meeting to discuss the review comments received from the external examiners on the thesis submitted by the PhD student. Subsequent to this, the 'l'AC shall assist the PhD student in responding to the comments and revising the thesis as required.


Rules related to Thesis Registration

26. DRAFT PROPOSAL SEMINAR (DPS):
26.1. This seminar is not mandatory.
26.2. However, scholars are encouraged to present a DPS as that would f,>-ive them feedback for the Thesis Proposal Seminar (TPS).
26.3. In situations where the PhD student requires more inputs and feedback to specify
research gap, questions, and methods, s/he is encouraged to deliver the DPS.
26.4. The DPS can be delivered only after the ref,>-istration of the TAC has taken place.
26.5. The DPS needs to bescheduled at least one month prior to scheduling of the TPS.
26.6. During DPS, the PhD student is expected to present the literature review, gaps identified, possible research question(s) and related issues.
26.7. The DPS must be attended by the TAC. Dean or a nominee, and faculty members from related areas are also expected to attend the seminar.
26.8. The PhD Student needs to work on the feedback received during DPS in consultation with the TAC towards planning for the thesis proposal.

27. THESIS PROPOSAL SEMINAR (TPS):

27.1. The TPS has to be presented within 2 years of doctoral registration.
27.2. The Thesis Proposal is a detailed document about the original research to be carried out. It should present the literature review and gaps identified, define the specific research one intends to carry out, justifying one's focus, research question(s), approach, research design and methodolOb'Y· It should also specify a work plan while also ant.icipating any special effort that may be required to complete the work on schedule.
27.3. The Thesis Proposal has to be submitted to the TAC prior to scheduling of the TPS.
27.4. Additionally, the PhD student shall require to submit a Research Rthics Policy checklist, with an application and necessary documents (if required) to the doctoral program office for review by the Research Rthics Committee (Annexure-11), and (if necessary) need to wait for their decision, before the TPS can bescheduled.
27.5. Only after the 'l'AC approves the proposal document, the 'l'PS is scheduled by the doctoral program office as per the clauses mentioned in Section 17 (Research Review Seminars).
27.6. 'I'he 'l'PS must be attended by the 'I'AC and an external expert. Dean or a nominee, and faculty members from related areas are also expected to attend the seminar.
27.7. 'I'he 'l'PS will be evaluated by a committee comprising of the TAC, an external expert, with the final recommendation to be given by the Dean or a nominee.
27.8. The PhD student should collect both oral and written feedback from the audience present duringthe seminar.
27.9. Based on the proposal document and the seminar feedback, the TAC may ask for certain revisions to the proposal document.
27.10. The scholar will submit the revised proposal within two weeks of communication of TPS evaluation results.


27.11. The TAC will examine the revised proposal and if found satisfactory, will recommend registration of the topic of the thesis (thesis registration).
27.12. Based upon the recommendation of the TAC, the thesis registration will be done by Associate Dean (Doctoral Program).
27.13. A Copy of the thesis registration letter will be sent to the TAC, Dean, Controller of Examinations, Rei;_,jstrar and the Vice-Chancellor.
27.14. Tfthe TPS is assessed as 'Unsatisfactory', the PhD student will need to re-deliver the TPS within 6 months of communication ofTPS evaluation results.
27.1G. Tf the scholar fails to clear the TPS in the 2nd attempt also, s/he will be de-registered from the doctoral proi;.'l·am.


28. THESIS REGISTRATION

28.1. Upon the recommendation of TAC, the Associate Dean (Doctoral Proi,,'l·am) will register the topic of the thesis, permitting the student to proceed with the proposed plan of original research and thesis writing.
28.2. At this stage, the following documents must be available in the PhD student's individual record maintained at the concerned Dean's Office:
28.2.1. Proof of satisfactory completion of the required coursework
28.2.2. Proof of satisfactory completion of the recommended coursework
28.2.3. Paper, pertaining to the Domain Review Seminar (DRS)
28.2.1. Paper pertaining to the RR.Ss, if any has been presented.
28.2.5. Written record of the audience feedback received during all the seminars.
28.2.6. Thesis proposal document, bearing a signed statement of approval by the
'l'AC
28.3. The Associate Dean (Doctoral Program) issues a letter of registration to the PhD student, with copies send to the TAC, Dean, Controller of Rxaminations, Registrar and the Vice-Chancellor.
28.1. Post thesis rei,,,jstration, in case there is a significant change in the work plan from what has been documented in the thesis proposal, the suggested changes needs to be approved by the Main Guide (in consultation with the TAC), and then by the Dean. Once approved, the thesis proposal needs to be re-submitted along with presentation of the TPS following clauses mentioned in Section 27.


29. ORIGINAL RESEARCH ANO THESIS WRITING
29.1. After receiving the letter of thesis registration, the PhD student carries out the piece of original research as described in the thesis proposal.
29.2. The PhD student must abide by the principles of research ethics and plagiarism
(Section 54) that would be relevant to the research work
29.3. The PhD student must maintain scholarly integrity while conducting any field work, interviews, or other forms of data collection, and in all other stages of the research process.
29.4. In case any ethical dilemmas arise in the course of research, the Thesis Advisory Committee (TAC) in consultation with the Research Ethics Committee (Annexure-


II) (as deemed necessary) functions as the ethics committee, to examine the choices being considered by the PhD student and providing the required guidance.
29.5. Thesis Writing

29.5.1. XIM University expects the doctoral thesis to conform to high standards of i,cholarship and serve as meaningful contribution to the relevant scholarly debates.
29.G.2. The presentation of the the.5is should be in accordance with the well-accepted
norms and format for research reporting. It should contain a statement of [a) the research procedures employed, and [b) the extent, nature, reliability, and suitability of the evidence gathered. Tt is necessary to include sufficient evidence to support the reasoning and conclusions so as to permit other i,cholars to build upon them. The length of the thesis will vary with the research topic.
29.G.3. The recommended writing style and citation format are as per the Publica.tio11. Ma,iu.al of the American Psychological Association (APL\ Manual), unless there is a reason to deviate frorn it.


Rules related to Submission of Thesis & Defense
30. THESIS SUBMISSION SEMINAR (TSS)

30.1. Before the submission of the final thesis for examination, all research scholars are required to make an open Thesis Submission Seminar (TSS).
30.2. The delivery ofTSS needs to adhere to the proi;.'l·am timelines (Section 6).

30.3. The thesis needs to be documented in full and as per the expectations of the TAC and needs to be submitted to the TAC prior to scheduling of the TSS.
30.4. The TSS can bescheduled only after the TAC okays the thesis.

30.5. In addition to above, the clauses mentioned in Sections 17 (Research Review Seminars), 50 (Research Publication) needs to be adhered before the TSS can be scheduled.
30.6. The TSS must be attended by the TAC and an external expert. Dean or a nominee, and faculty members from related areas are also expected to attend the seminar.
30.7. The TSS will be evaluated by a committee comprising of the TAC, an external expert, with the final recommendation to be given by the Dean or a nominee.
30.8. The the. is may be evaluated as

30.8.1. Approved for final submission - the scholar will submit the thesis for examination within two weeks of communication of the TSS evaluation results.
30.8.2. Approved for final submission with minor changes - the scholar has to make the changes that have been l'e<:ommended and re-submit the thesis to the TAC within a month of communication of the TSS evaluation results. If additional time is required, that needs to be communicated along with reasons to the Dean within two weeks of communication of the 'l'SS evaluation l'esults. The TAC will review the changes and can recommend submission of thesis for examination.
30.8.3. Substantial changes requil'ed in the thesis - the student will have to make major modifications in the thesis as per the recommendations made. The scholar needs to consu.lt the TAC and communicate the time that will be required for the revision along with reasons to the Dean within two weeks of communication of the TSS evaluation results. She/he will have to present the TSS again after the changes have been made in the thesis.
30.9. After successful completion of this seminar, the thesis shall be sent for examination.


31. SUBMISSION OF THESIS FOR EXAMINATION

31.1. The thesis must be submitted as per the program timeline (Section 6) or an alternative deadline suggested by the Thesis Advisory Committee (TAC) and approved by the Dean.
31.2. The PhD student is required to submit four hard copies in spiral bound form (preferably in back-to-back print format) and soft copy (in both the content preparation version e.g., Ms. Word I LaTeX, and the PDF version) • properly copyedited following the !,>uidelines of the APA Manual) of the thesis to the doctoral program office (to be forwm·ded to the Controller of Examinations).
31.3. The following documents are to be submitted along with the thesis:

(a) A statement by the Thesis Advisory Committee (TAC), signed by all the members, recommending the thesis for examination.
(b) An undertaking from the research scholar co-si1,,>ned by the guide(s) attesting to
the originality of the work, vouching that there is no plagiarism and that the work has not been submitted for the award of any other dei,.'l·ee/diploma of the same Inst-itution where the work was caiTied out, or to any other Institut-ion.
(c) An extended abstract of the thesis (of about 1000 words) - in soft copy.
(d) A more detailed synopsis of the thesis (of about 5000 words, including a representative reference list of the literature cited in the thesis) - in soft copy.
(e) Copies of reply to comments (with respect to all seminars delivered by the PhD
student at XTM University) - soft copies.
(f) One copy of Student Approval Form towards non-exclusive transfer of copyright.
(g) A copy of the registration form issued at the time of registrat-ion in the doctoral program.
(h) Certificate of Plagiarism Check adhering to the rules related to research ethics
and plagiarism (Section 54) fr-om the library and duly signed by the Librarian, PhD Student, and Guide.
31.1. A copy of the forwarding letter is to be marked to the Dean and to the Registrar.

31.5. A copy of the thesis will be kept in the XTM University library for sc.-utiny and comments.

32. IDENTIFICATION OF THESIS EXAMINERS

32.1. There will be three examiners for each thesis - one internal examiner from within the University, one external examiner from witbin the country and one external examiner from outside the country.
32.2. The Main Guide in consultation with the TAC and Dean, will suggest the names and contact details of at least ten potential external examiners, in order of preference.
32.3. This list will contain atleast 5 names from within India and atleast 5 names from outside India. Ideally, the external examiners should be full Professors or Associate


Professors, not in employment of the University, and having a good record of scholarly publications in the area of research addressed in the thesis. The reference list used by the scholar in the thesis may be used to identify the examiners.
32.4. The Dean will identify the potential internal examiner(s), and needs to approve the examiners listing.
32.5. The list of internal and external examiners will be sent to Associate Dean (Doctoral Program) for finalization.
32.6. The Associate Dean (Doctoral PrOb'Tam) may update the list of potential external examiners, adding or deleting names, and reordering the list, if necessary.
32.7. However, in case Associate Dean (Doctoral Program) is in the TAC of the PhD student in concern, then the finalization of the examiners will be done by the Dean of School.
32.8. The necessary communications along with sharing copies of the thesis with the recommended list of external and internal examiners will be handled by the Controller of Examinations.

33. IN1'ERNAL EXAMINER

33.1. The Tnternal Rxaminer is a full-time faculty-member ofXTM University and is not a part of the TAC of the concerned scholar, who is familiar with the standards of scholarship expected in a doctoral thesis as well as the rules and norms of the XIM University doctoral program.
33.2. 'l'he Tnternal Rxaminer is selected by the Dean.

33.3. However, in case, the Dean is the Guide, co-Guide or a 'l'AC member, the Internal Examiner will be selected by Associate Dean (Doctoral Program).
33.4. If the topic of the thesis is such that the Dean is the most suitable internal examiner available, she/he should refer it to the Doctoral Program Committee. 'l'he Associate Dean (Doctoral Program) may then appoint the Dean as the lnternal Rxaminer on the recommendation of the Doctoral Program Committee.
33.5. Responsibilities of the Internal Examiner:

• To oversee the entire thesis examination process on behalf of the Dean, without colluding with anyone, maintaining the highest possible academic integrity and fairness of the examination process
• To provide his/her independent observations on the thesis under examination
• To provide his/her observations on the reply to comments document submitted by the scholar for all the seminars delivered by the scholar as a PhD student of XIM University
• To provide his/her observations on the review comments received from the external examiners


• To serve as a member of the oral examination panel
• To evaluate the revised thesis after any rework or revision to the thesis subsequent to the oral examination
• To decide whether the revised thesis is acceptable or whether the revised thesis
should be sent for another round of review by external examiners
• To decide whether another oral examination should be held


34. THESIS EXAMINATION PROCESS

34.1. The Controller of Examinations will contact the potential external examiners, in order of preference indicated by Associate Dean (Doctoral Pro1,>ram) / Dean (refer to Section 32), and also the internal examiner.
311.2. The two most prefe1Ted external examiners (one from India, one outside) who can examine the thesis within a reasonable time limit (say, within 3 months) will be identified. In case an examiner declines to be the examiner, the next person in order of preference will be contacted.
34.3. At least one of the external examiners should be located conveniently so as to be able
to attend the viva-voce in person.

34.4. The Controller of F.xaminations will send out a formal request to the external examiners and the internal examiner to review the thesis, enclosing the detailed synopsis and the complete thesis • either in hard or soft version, as desired by the exruniners.
31.5. The examiners will be requested to evaluate the thesis as •

• Category-I: Acceptable without any changes.

• Category-TT: Acceptable with minor changes - the PhD student in consultation with the 'f'AC will have to make the changes that have been recommended within a month of communication of the thesis examination results.
• Category-Ill: Substantial changes required - the PhD student in consultation with the 1'AC will have to make major modifications in the thesis as per the comments of the examiners. The scholar needs to consult the TAC and communjcate the time that will be required for the revision along with reasons to the Associate Dean (Doctoral P1·ogram) within two weeks of communication of the thesis examination results.
• Category-IV: Unacceptable - The thesis is unacceptable to one or more examiners.
34.6. The thesis needs to be in a satisfactory standard as per the evaluation reports of the examiners or has been revised to the satisfactory standard following the evaluation reports before an oral examination would be arranged.


34.7. In case the thesis is evaluated as 'Unacceptable' by one external examiner, the Controller of Examinations shall send the thesis to another (third) external examiner out of the preference list of the potential external examiners.
34.8. If both the external examiners evaluate the thesis as 'Unacceptable' or if the report of the latest (third) examiner is also 'Unacceptable', the thesis shall be rejected, and the PhD student shall be declared ineligible for the award of the degree.

35. RESPONSE TO REVIEW COMMENTS

35.1. The Controller of Examinations will forward the examiners' comments to the Dean, marking copies to the Guide and the Associate Dean (Doctoral Prob'Tam).
35.2. The review comments of the eid,ernal examiners will be discussed in a meeting convened by the Dean, in the presence of the Internal Examiner, Main Guide, and the other Thesis Advisory Committee (TAC) members (if available). At this stage, a decision would be made about either arranging an oral examination or advising the student to revise the thesis for re-examination or even sending the thesis to an addit.ional external examiner.
35.3. In case revisions to the thesis become necessary, then the Internal Examiner should play a facilitative role in the thesis revision process.
35.4. The PhD student in consultation with the Guide and 1'AC will respond to the comments and revise the thesis as required.
35.5. The thesis (if revised) and response to the comments will be sent to the concerned Dean, who will certify that t.he comments have been suitably responded to. This will be done in consultation with the Tnternal examiner.
35.6. The thesis may then be resubmitted to the Controller of Examinations for further action. The Controller of Examinations will resend the thesis (if revised) and response to comments to the examiners if required as the case may be.
35.7. The revised thesis may have to be re-examined by the external examiners, if so stipulated by the external examiners in their review comments. At least two of the three examiners (i.e., one internal and two external examiners) should be satisfied with the thesis before an oral examination would be arranged.

36. THESIS OE.FENSE EXAMINATION (TOE)

36.1. The Thesis Defense Examination will be scheduled based on the outcome of the thesis examination process following clauses specified in Sections 34 and 35.
36.2. The Thesis Defense E.xamination will include a presentation made by the PhD student to the Thesis Examination Committee (TEC) and a viva-voce.


36.3. The members of the TEC will be the internal examiner, one of the external examiners and the concerned Dean.
36.4. The concerned Dean will be the Chair of the TEC and shall preside over the evaluation process. In those cases, wherein the Dean is the Guidefl'AC member, a nominee of the Dean (as suggested by the Dean) shall preside over the evaluation.
36.5. The Thesis Defense Examination will be made open to everyone. Anyone having interest on the thesis or related to the thesis can take part as an audience.
36.6. There can be various types of disqualification at this stage, requiring anything from a minor modification of the the. is to a total resubmission of the thesis, with or without another Thesis Defense Examination.
36.7. The PhD student will need to pass the Thesis Defense Examination at the 'Satisfactory' level of all the members of the TEC.
36.8. On acceptable clearance of the Thesis Defense Examination by the PhD student in concern, all the members of the TEC shall sign the recornrnendation for the thesis.
36.9. Tn case the examiners are not satisfied with the Viva-voce examination, a re­ examination will be set up at a date and time convenient to the PhD student and the examiners. Tf the PhD student again fails in the Thesis Defense Examination, s/he will be denied the PhD degree.
36.10. Tn extreme cases, for example, all the examiners evaluating the thesis to be Unsatisfactory, or very negative reports of the TEC examiners, etc. may lead to denial of the PhD degree without another Thesis Defense Examination.
36.11. The declaration of the The. is Defense Examination results needs be within a period of six (6) months from the date of submission of thesis for examination.

37. FINAL THESIS SUBMISSION

37.1. The 'l'EC may suggest modifications to the thesis.
37.2. Comments received during this process will be incorporated by the scholar while submitting the final bound volume of the thesis.
37.3. Thesis Copy Submission for Fulfillment of the Doctoral Degree:
Every PhD student shall, after successful final viva-voce, submit 9 (nine) hard-bound copies of their full doctoral thesis duly embossed on the cover page (sky-blue color) and with bounded insertions of all mandatory certificates (Title Certificate, Supervisor Certificate, Certificate of Approval by TAC, Certificate of Approval by TEC, PhD Student Declaration of Originality countersigned by Supervisor, Copyright Transfer Declaration) by the appropriate academic authorities and made into multiple copies as approved hereunder for submission in totality to the Controller of Examinations Office and obtain proof of submission. A PhD student who fulfills this


thesis copy submission criteria shall be eligible for convocation provided that such submission is not later than 30 calendar days before the ensuing convocation of that academic year. A minimum of 9 copies are to be submitted to the Controller of Examinations Office duly embossed.
37.4. The PhD student shall submit the softcopy of the final thesis, in chapter-wise and consolidated formats (in both the content preparation version e.g., Ms. Word I LaTeX, and the PDF version) as per instructions shared with them. The softcopy needs to contain all the mandatory certificates (refer to Clause 37.3 above).
37.5. The PhD student shall submit a Thesis Copy Submission Form, available at the Controller of Examinations Office. On fulfilling the submission requirements, the PhD student shall be eli1,.-ible for the Controller of Examinations Office clearance.
37.6. The Controller of Examinations Office shall distribute the hardcopies of the thesis to the necessary offices and departments of the University under receipt of signatures.
37.7. The softcopy will be stored internally and also shared with relevant digital repositories (e.g., Shodhganga, INFLIBNET Centre) as per notifications received.

38. RECOMMENDATION OF CONFERMENT

After all the requirements ai·e met, the Academic Council of XIM University may recommend the PhD student's name for the conferment of the PhTl degree of XTM University at its forthco1ning annual convocation.

Issue of Provisional Certificate:

Prior to the actual award of the degree, the degree-awarding Tnstitution shall issue a provisional certificate to the effect that the Degree has been awarded in accordance with the UGC Regulations.
Accordingly, XIM University shall issue the Provisional Certificate as per UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedures for Award of PhTl Degree) Regulations, 2022, which can be issued by the Controller of Examinations. In addition, a "notification from the registrai'' will be issued on completion of the dissertation requirements.
''l'herefore, upon successful thesis defense, completion of final thesis submission formalities, and submission of all the necessai·y clearances (from the relevant offices and departments, and the doctoral office) in the Controller of Examinations Office, the PhD student will be eligible to receive a Provisional Certificate issued by the Controller of Examinations, XIM University.


Rules related to the Progress Reporting

39. PROGRESS REPORT SUBMISSION
39.1. Every six month, the PhD student shall be required to make a presentation before the Thesis Advisory Committee (TAC) and submit 6-monthly progress reports as per the procedures communicated by the doctoral program office.
39.2. In the progress report the PhD student will have to document the details on the prob'Tess s/he has made in the last six months under consideration.
39.3. S/he will also need to respond to the deficiencies noted in the evaluation of the earlier progress report that was submitted, and what kind of corrective measures s/he took to address those deficiencies.
39.4. The pro1,,'Tess report shall be evaluated by the guide of the concerned PhD student who shall be responsible for providing objective comments on the progress reported and suggestions for improvement. .
3!!.5. Tn case the PhD student fails to submit the required "6-monthly progress report" as per the requirements for any two periods (cumulatively), or the PhD student receives 'Unsatisfactory' evaluation of the 6-monthly progress for any three periods (cumulatively), s/he will be de-rei,,-istered from the doctoral proi,'l·am.


40. EXPECTED THESIS COMPLETION TIMELINE
10.1. Every PhD student who has completed five (5) calendar years since doctoral registration shall be required to submit the expected thesis completion timeline, as per the procedures communicated by the doctoral program office. Tf the PhD student fails to adhere to Clause 6.2 (on program duration) regarding completing the program requirements, the timeline can be the basis for any re-registration considerations, if applicable.
10.2. In this timeline document, the PhD student needs to indicate the work (against the milestones reported in the thesis proposal seminar document) that is pending, the proposed timelines for completion of the pending work, and the possible risks concerning the work.
40.3. The details provided shall be examined by the guide of the concerned PhD student who shall be responsible for providing objective comments on the details reported by the PhD student.
40.4. The Dean will examine the information reported and, if satisfied, may permit an extension (or continuation) for a maximum of one year (or till the next assessment) to allow the PhD student to continue with the dissertation work.
40.5. If an extension (or continuation) is granted, the PhD student shall be required to submit a similar timeline document again as per the procedures communicated by the


doctoral program office before the completion of the last period. This process will repeat if any further extension (or continuation) is again granted to the PhD student.
40.6. In case an extension (or continuation) is not granted to the PhD student, the PhD student will be de-registered from the doctoral program.
40.7. In the PhD student fails to submit the information as per the requirements, the matter will be discussed. It is possible that b-iven such a deviance, the PhD students may be de-registered from the doctoral program.


Rules related to the Program Continuation

41. LIMITS TO ACADEMIC FREEDOM
41.1. XIM University expects all PhD students to show the highest level of academic integrity in all the work that they do.
41.2. All PhD students are expected to adhere to the rules and norms of the Univer;,ity.
41.3. Contravention of rules and any instance of misconduct will be taken note of and action will be taken as per the rules in force.
41.4. The details of rules related to misconduct and disciplinary matters- is available in
Annexure-V.


42. ATTENDANCE

The University attaches great importance to punctual and regular attendance of all PhD students. The PhD students are required to 1,-ive their attendance daily following the procedure communicated to them except on Sundays & Tnstitute holidays. The PhD students are also required to follow t.he guidelines mentioned below. Absence without prior permission/intimation for leave is considered to be a serious breach of discipline, and the PhD student is liable for appropriate disciplinary action.
42.1. During Coursework:

• The rule of the University regarding student attendance is 100%. However, for serious sickness, bereavement in the family, university work etc. a student may be granted a reduction of up to 25% attendance. However, as per UGC and Higher F.ducation Departments rule and regulation every student must have 75% attendance in a course to be eli1,-ible for the end-term examinat-ions. In exceptional cases of sickness, or health issues etc. the Dean is empowered to take the call.
• A student who fails to have the requisite 75% attendance in a course will have to repeat the course when it is next offered.
• A student who fails to have the requisite 75% attendance in more than 3 courses during a term/phase would require the student to discontinue and re-join on the commencement of the same term/phase in the next academic year.
• However, depending on the nature of a particular course, the faculty may follow a suitable attendance policy, which may deviate from the following guidelines. But in such cases, the policy shall be announced to the students at the beginning of the course and communicated to the doctoral program office by the faculty concerned.
• Faculty are not responsible for any student losing any segment of evaluation on account of leave availed by her/him with prior permission, and the make-up of class tests, which are missed-out due to such absence is left entirely to the discretion of the faculty.


42.2. During Thesis Stage:

• It is compulsory for the PhD students to maintain minimum 75% attendance in
each academic year during the thesis stage.
• It is compulsory for the PhD students to maintain minimum of 75% attendance in all Research Review Seminars, Research Training Seminars (RTS), and Faculty Recruitment Seminars (of the school where the PhD student is enrolled).
42.3. Availing Leave of Absence

• The PhD student is entitled for casual leave of 15 days in each academic year (during thesis stage) in addition to Jnstitute's holidays but is not entitled to vacations [except during term/phase breaks duringcoursework].
• I\. PhD student may apply for an ei,.1,ra-ordinary leave (minimum duration: 15 days, maximum duration: 9 months), if needed, with supporting reasons. Such a leave can be availed only twice during the entire PhD duration (subject to the total leave durations added up not exceeding the specified limits).
• Exemption from attending classes is not permissible for reasons other than
personal physical disability, grave personal tragedy and University work.
• Under special circumstances as mentioned above, a student may be !,'Tanted leave of absence. Such leave of absence will be granted on application, for good and sufiicient reasons, by the concerned Dean.
• Before availing any leave, the scholar is required to intimate in writing to the
concerned Dean with a copy to the doctoral pro1,,'Tam office.
• Absence without prior permission/intimation for leave is considered  to be a
serious breach of discipline.


43. LEAVE OF ABSENCE FROM DOCTORAL PROGRAM

43.1. ln case a PhD student is unable to keep up with the progress requirements of the
PhD process, she/he may be granted a leave of absence from the doctoral program.

43.2. The leave of absence can be for a period of 1 - 3 years.

43.3. A PhD student can avail a leave of absence in continuation or in maximum three blocks of dm-ation A, B, and C months, where A, B, and C together should not exceed the maximum duration permissible.
43.4. The PhD student can apply for the leave of absence to the Dean, with the approval of
the DRS Facilitator/ Main Guide (depending upon the stage where the scholar is in).

43.5. The final decision will be taken by the Dean, after consulting with the scholar and the
DRS Facilitator/ Main Guide.
43.6. The PhD student will be automatically considered to have re-joined the doctoral program after the expiry of the intended period of leave availed.


43.7. In case a PhD students wants to extend the leave of absence, a fresh application of extension with necessary approvals (Clause 43.4), needs to be submitted to Dean atleast one week before the expiry of the leave duration availed. However the final decision on grantof the extension shall rest with the Dean.
43.8. If the PhD student wants to re-join the doctoral program early (i.e., before expiry of the leave duration), s/he will have to make an application to the Dean through DRS Facilitator/ Main Guide (based on who approved the leave). The decision conveyed by the Dean shall be final in such cases.

44. PERMANENT DISCONTINUANCE FROM THE PROGRAM

44.l. Tn case a PhD student wishes to discontinue from the doctoral program, an application towards this is to be submitted to Associate Dean (Doctoral Prob'Tam) through DRS Facilitator/ Main Guide (depending upon the stage where the scholar is in), and the Dean.
11.2. The final decision will be taken by Associate Dean (Doctoral Prob'Tam) after necessary consultations as deemed necessary.
11.3. A letter of discont.inuation shall beissued to the scholar.


Rules related to the Evaluation

45. THE EVALUATION SYSTEM

The faculty teaching a course will specify the evaluation components and weightages that will apply to their com-se, following the pattern detailed here after.

45.1. Evaluation Component:

The number of evaluation components in courses carrying different credits will be as follows-

Course CreditMinimum no. of components121.522 or more3

45.2. Weightage for different Components:

The weightage for different components of evaluation in courses requiring a minimum of three components (i.e., courses with 2 or more credits) will be as given below. In case a faculty wants to deviate from the guideline s/he needs to communicate the same to the concerned students

ComponentRange of
weightage %Class Participation5-15Qui?: and/or Assignment15-30Individual Project15-25Group Project10-20Mid-term F.xamination20-30Rnd-term Examination30-40
For courses with less than 2 credits, no component should carry more than 60% weightage.

45.3. The decision of the Dean regarding grades or any segment of evaluation will be final. A student who needs clarification of one's grades may discuss with the doctoral program office within a week of receiving the grades.
45.4. Faculty will give feedback to students periodically on their performance through written comments on answer sheets or through individual meetings.


45.5. If a student has missed an exam on account of authorised absence, s/he should approach the Faculty concerned for administering a make-up examination within two weeks, unless otherwise specified by the faculty concerned. In such an event, the student is responsible for ensuring that the 1,'l·ade is submitted to the doctoral program office by the faculty without undue delay. The student's transcript will carry an "I" grade until and unless the doctoral program office receives the final grade from the faculty by the deadline specified for that purpose.
45.6. If, for any reason, the student fails to avail himself/herself of the opportunity to make-up the missed examination(s), slhe will be finally awarded "T" grade for that course or for that segment of evaluation, as the case may be, and no second opportunity for a re-test will be given.
45.7. A student, who has obtained an "T" grade should complete the requirements of the course to the satisfaction of the faculty within 1 (four) weeks from the date on which the grade is announced. Failing this the 'T' component marks shall be treated as 7.ei·o and the total1,>-rade would be calculated taking the 'T component as zero.
45.8. Students are required to strictly adhere to the deadlines prescribed for the submission of all written assi1,>nments, projects, and reports. Late submission might lead to reduction in grade as indicated hereunder:

DelayReductionExample1 week or less1 grade pointFrom R+ to R2 weeks or less2 grade pointsFrom B+ to C+3 weeks or less3 grade pointsFrom R+ to C
Tf a written assignment is overdue for more than 3 weeks, the faculty may refuse to accept the assi1,>nment and award "zero" for that segment of evaluation. However, if the grades are submitted to the doctoral program office with an T symbol in the assignment, the incomplete component shall be treated as 1,ero, on expiry of two weeks from the date of submission of 1,>Tades to the doctoral pro1,>-ram office or from the last date for submission of grades for the term/phase, whichever is later.
45.9. Grading Pattern: The University follows a relative grading system. 'l'he students are evaluated on a quality point from O to 10 as well as classified into letter grade from F to 0. The equivalence of quality point and letter grade is as follows:

Grade0A+AB+BC+CD+DFQuality
Point9.50-
108.75-
9.498.00-
8.746.75-
7.995.50-
6.744.25-
5.493.00-
4.241.75-
2.990.50-
1.740-
0.49
The symbol 'I' is used to denote an incomplete component/assignment, if any. The incomplete component (other than the end-term, which is mandatory), shall be awarded zero marks, after completion of the deadline, and the final grade will be calculated accordingly.


Use of grades including 'F' grade is for academic performance only as per the Manual of Policies for Students. 'F' grade can also be used for a proven malpractice in assignment/examination. Grade reduction is permissible as per the manual for established misconduct.

45.10. Quality Point Index

Theindex of a student's term/phase performance is the Quality Point Index or QPI. Tt is the weighted average of the total quality points secured by a student in a term/phase, and relates to the maximum quality base of ten. The index of the student's performance in all the terms/phases completed is the Cumulative Quality Point Index or CQPI. It is the weighted average of the Q.Pls of all the courses and terms/phases completed.

45.11. Performance Feedback

a. Faculty teaching a com·se would provide periodic feedback to the students on their
performance.
b. Faculty teaching a course would also communicate to the students the grades of quizzes, short tests and other assignments within 10-15 days of completion of the tests or submission of assib>nments as the case may be.

45.12. Re-evaluation/Clarification

a. A student seeking clarification on any grade awarded to her/him may meet the
Instructor concerned within one week of publication of the grade.
b. Re-evaluation of examination o,· term papers is normally not allowed. Tn exceptional cases the student concerned should appeal for re-evaluation, with a valid reason, to the concerned Dean within two weeks of the announcement of the grade.
The concerned Dean will forward the request to the concerned faculty. In case the student is not satisfied with the decision of the Faculty, s/he can make an appeal to the concerned Dean soon after receiving the Faculty's decision. Should a re-evaluation be done, the student would have to accept the new grade, irrespective of its increase or decrease over the previous grade, and that would be t.aken for the final computation of the com·se grade.


Rules related to Doctoral Activities

46. PARTICIPATION IN SEMINARS WITHIN XIM UNIVERSITY

46.1. The PhD students are required to attend Research Review Seminars delivered by other PhD students, Research Training Seminars (RTS), and Faculty Recruitment Seminars (of the school where the PhD student is enrolled)
46.2. Research Training Seminars (RTS) may be offered by eminent academicians, practitioners and scholars on research and topics of interest, and constitute an important me<:hanism for learning apart from the prescribed pedagogy
46.3. RTSs are organised throughout the academic year by the doctoral program office.

46.4. Attendance norms in these seminars follow the rules mentioned in Section 42.

47. PARTICIPATION IN SEMINARS OUTSIDEXIM UNIVERSITY
47.1. PhD students are encouraged to attend research seminar;, that are held in places other than XIM University.
17.2. The PhD student needs to have approval of the DRS Facilitator / Main Guide (depending upon the stage where the scholar is), and Dean before s/he will be allowed to attend the seminar. S/he will also have to communicate to the doctoral program office in advance and share details on the seminar that may be available.
17.3. The scholar will have to submit some proof of participation and atleast one-page write-up on the seminar attended within two weeks of conclusion of the seminar in order for it to be acknowledged as a partof the PhD journey.

48. PARTICIPATION IN CONFERENCES
48.1. PhD students are encouraged  to attend conferences that are organi1,ed at  XTM
University.

48.2. The Associate Dean (Doctoral Program) in consultation with Deans may instruct the PhD students to attend specific conferences which are organized within XIM University
48.3. The rules for attending such conferences will be as per the rules spe<:ified by the conference.
48.4. The PhD student will need to inform the DRS facilitator / Main Gtude (depending upon the stage where the scholar is), and Dean about his/her participation in the conference. S/he will also have to keep the doctoral program office informed.
48.5. The scholar will have to submit some proof of participation and atleast one-page write-up on the conference attended within two weeks of conclusion of the conference in order for it to be acknowledged as a part of the PhD journey. The writeup needs to


also clearly indicate information on sessions the PhD student attended, and the number of days of involvement in the conference.

49. PARTICIPATION IN WORKSHOPS

49.1. The PhD student may require to attend workshops organized within XJM Univer;,ity or outside.
49.2. The purpose of attending these workshops is to acquire specific knowledge beyond what may have been delivered during coursework that will help the PhD student in the doctoral journey.
49.3. Prior to attending workshops, the PhD student will need to inform the doctoral prob'l"am office.
49.4. During the Thesis Stage, for attending workshops, the PhD student will need to have approval of the DRS Facilitator/ Main Guide (depending upon the stage), and Dean, with the necessary intimation to the doctoral program office.

50. RESEARCH PUBLICATION

50.1. The PhD student will be required to publish portions of the work related to the the. is before s/he can deliver the Thesis Submission Seminar (TSS).
50.2. PhD student will need to share informat-ion on all publications made by him/her (before submission of thesis) to the doctoral program office.
50.3. Any publication of the PhD student which is not acceptable to the 'l'AC shall not be considered as a partof the PhD journey.
50.1. The School Research Committee (SRC) may, from time to time, establish stricter publication requirements for Phfl students registered with the school, which will override the provisions of Section 50.6 and will be binding on the concerned students.
50.5. Publication in Conference Proceedings:

• During the Thesis Stage, the Phfl students are expected to make atleast one publication in academic conferences or an equivalent forum before TSS.
• The rules regarding registration and participation in such conferences shall be as per the rules prescribed by the conference.
• PhD student shall require to have approval of the Guide and Dean in advance without which the concerned publications shall not be considered as a part of the PhD journey.
50.6. Publication in Journals:

• PhD students are strongly encouraged to publish their work in journals of repute.


• The journals shortlisted for publication should	be atleast of the	quality recommended by the UGC.
• PhD students should have at least one acceptance of publication in a peer-reviewed journal for delivery of the TSS.


51. RESEARCH & TEACHING ASSISTANT (RTA)

51.1. The objective is to help the PhD students to observe teaching in action, understand pedago1,>ical approaches and also be a participant in the process of education. Such work should contribute to the student's learning and experience.
u1.2. PhD student. during the Thesis stage are encouraged to take up research and teaching assignments.
51.3. A student can work as a Resem-ch & Teaching Assistant (RTA) and can assist faculty members in teaching and research.
51.1. The extent of such engagements may not be more than 6 credits of course assistantship (i.e., equivalent to providing assistance in two full-courses each of 3 credits) in an academic year.
51.5. The PhD student will help the faculty in t.he preparation of course out.line, course material, teaching note. and will sit through the course. He/she will assist the faculty in evaluation component.
u1.6. The faculty in concern may also permit the PhD student to handle 2-3 classroom sessions for a course.
51.7. Before enga1,>ing as an RTA, the PhD student needs to have approval of the DRS Facilitator / Main Guide (depending upon the stage), Dean and intimation to Associate Dean (Doctoral Program). Only after obtaining the necessary approval, the PhD student's R'l'A-ship shall be allowed to start.
51.8. A PhD student may be denied the role of RTL\ on grounds of non-adherence to expected performance standards (as per evaluation of progress reports), evidence of non-adherence to university norms, or on non-adherence to program timelines.

52. TEACHING COURSES
52.1. A PhD student preferably in the Thesis Stage may be allowed to take courses in academic programmes witbin XJM University.
52.2. The PhD students who are found suitable can teach up to six credits in an academic calendar.
52.3. If a PhD student takes up a teaching assignment, s/he will he required to fulfil all the related responsibilities as communicated to him/her from the program (Deans) office wheres/he has been engaged in teaching.


52.4. The PhD student needs to have approval of the DRS Facilitator / Main Guide (depending upon the stage where the scholar is), Dean and intimation to Associate Dean (Doctoral Program). Only after obtaining the requisite approvali;, i;/he will be allowed to commence with the course.
52.5. A PhD student may be debarred from taking a course on grounds of non-adherence to expected performance standards (as per evaluation of progrei;s reports), evidence of non-adherence to university norms, or on non-adherence to program timelines.

53. OTHER ENGAGEMENTS

53.1. The PhD students in the Thesis Stage may be required to engage in School/University related activities as communicated to them.
G3.2. The PhD student may be required to participate in field visits for data collection or other related activities during the doctoral journey.
53.3. The PhD student may have additional engagement. during the doctoral journey, for example, chairing sessions in a seminar/conference, performing paper reviews, memberships with professional bodies, etc.
53.4. Prior intimation to DRS Facilitator/ Main Guide (depending upon the stage where the scholar is), Dean and intimation to Associate Dean (Doctoral Program) with necessary approvals (as the case warrants) will be required before the PhD student can take up such activities.
53.5. PhD student needs to shore information on such engagements with the doctoral program office.


Rules related to Research Ethics and Plagiarism

PhD students must adhere to the XIM University Research Ethics Policy, in their research conduct during their doctoral journey. They must obtain prior approval for research	involving	human	participants	or	identifiable	data	and report any significant amendments. They are responsible for ensuring informed consent, data confidentiality, legal compliance, and ethical use of Al tools, with full disclosure where applicable. Any failure to comply may result in disciplinary action unde1· the university's research misconduct policy and procedures.

64.PLAGIARISM POLICY

u4.1. Definition: Plagiarism is the passing off of the thoughts or works of another as one's own. Plab,iarism involves b>iving the impression that thestudent has thought, written or produced something that has, in fact, been borrowed from another. This can be done in two ways, either by copying exactly what the writer has said or by summarizing or paraphrasing the ideas as your own. Copying the words or ideas of another in a piece of written work without acknowledgement of the orib,inal source, amounts to an attempt toclaim them as one's own.
51.2. Appropriate quotations and due acknowledgements of orib,inal sources that have been used as references may enhance a student's written work.
54.3. Along with the PhTl student, it is also the re. ponsibility of the TlPS Facilitator (till the point of reb,istration of guide) and subsequently the Main Guide to ensure that theseminar documents submitted for evaluation have been checked for plagiarism.
51.1. The PhD student is required to carry out the similarity check of the seminar documents in accordance with the institutional procedure.
54.5. Plagiarism in any form is unacceptable. Tf plagiarism is detected in a piece of submitted work, it may be considered as academic misconduct.
54.6. Tf the	plagiarism has resulted from the PhTl student's work as a part of the dissertation, which has already been published, the student may submit a self­ declaration on that line, with supporting evidence.
54.7. In addition, if required, an appropriate committee will deal with possible issues pertaining to allegations of plagial'ism (Clause 54.8) where a manual inspection of the seminar document may be required, after attending to all other possibilities.
54.8. Allegations of Plagiarism:	When an allegation of plagiarism is reported, the following circumstances shall determine which of the following actions should apply:
• Plagiarism allegations during coursework may be dealt with by the concerned faculty member in consultation with Dean. Depending on the gravity of the matter, the action imposed may include a warning, resubmission, loss of marks, failure on a particular task or in a subject, or a charge of misconduct to he dealt with by the Student Disciplinary Committee.


• In case the extent of plagiarism in any seminar document submitted for evaluation is more than 10% (and after necessary considerations, as relevant, as stated in Clauses 54.6 - 54.7), the submission will be rejected. A fresh document needs to be submitted again for evaluation.
• More serious matters including multiple allegations may result in cancellation of registration of the concerned PhD student.

54.9. In all cases where an action has been imposed following allegation of plagiarism, a warning will be issued to the concerned scholar with a notification to the Dean, DPS Facilitator (till the point of registration of guide) or Main Guide. A file note of the matter shall be placed on the student's central file and a copy of the file note provided to the student.
5'1.10.In case there is a repetition of the offence, the student will have to withdraw from the doctoral program or his/her candidature will be cancelled.


Rules related to Resources Management

55. CAMPUS EXPERIENCE AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
55.1. Learning Resources
• PhD students get access to the University's library and computer network. The students are bound by the policies and norms formulated by the respective departments for their users.
• These learning resources and related services are to be used strictly for academic purposes. Any book or journal article as required by a PhD student is procured by the library as per the recommendation from the mentor/Guide.

55.2. Accommodation
• PhD students are expected to stay in the campus and engage in research work at the University during the entire pro1,,>Tamme
• PhD students will be provided with hostel accommodation, subject to availability. Special accommodation arrangements can be made for students with special needs. However, students availing campus accommodation but not utili7.ing it shall need to vacate the room allotted immediately and inform concerned authorities.
• Dm·ing the period of accommodation within the campus, the PhD students are bound by Hostel Administration Rules ofXTM University.

55.3. Copyright
• Copyright is a legal right created by the law that grants the creator of original work exclusive rights for its use and distribution. It is a form of protection provided to the author/s of "original works of authorship".
• 1\11 research work and related referencing work done by the Scholar is the sole property of the scholar and is covered by the plagiarism rules.
• 1\11 research/project related assistance provided by the Scholar to his/her guide/s, is also the sole property of the Guide and covered by the plagiarism rules.

55.4. \l\'orkspace: Based on availability, PhD students are assigned a workspace with computers in designated rooms. All these facilities are to be used strictly for academic purposes.
55.5. Information updates: PhD students are required to update all information including publication details regularly or when asked using appropriate online platforms.


Applicability of the Rules


A. AMENDMENTS IN THE GUIDELINES

1. This Manual of Policies for PhD students will be applicable to all PhD students who are registered in the Doctoral Proi;,>Tam (Full-Time) under XIM University with effect from June 2023.
2. The Doctoral Proi;,>Tam Committee may periodically review the guidelines and place its recommendation before the Academic Council for finalization.


B. RESERVATION OF RIGHTS
1. XTM University reserve.5 the l'ight to change, as and when necessary, the academic and administrative requirements of the doctoral proi;,>Tams or policies and norms affecting PhD students, should such change be deemed necessary in the interest of the University OI' the academic community in general.
2. The University can modify o,· change the rules, in whole or in part, without assigning any reasons whatsoever.
3. i\ll disputes unresolved will be reviewed by a subcommittee of the Academic Council and thereafter, the decision of the Vice-Chancellor is final and binding on all concerned.


ANNEXURE-I

EXTERNAL EXPERT

1. S/he is an expert not belonging to the TAC of the PhD student in concern.

2. S/he can be a faculty member belonging to a different area / school / institution or a practitioner having interest in the topic of the seminar.
3. The external expert may be nominated by the School Research Committee (SRC) of the school.
4. Role of External Expert

• The external expert will be mandatorily part of the evaluation committee of the seminars delivered by the PhD student (e.g. thesis proposal seminar, thesis submission seminar).
• The external expert may also be appointed for other research seminars (e.g. draft proposal seminar, pro1,,>Tess review seminars, etc.) delivered by scholars.
• The seminar writeup will be shared with the expert in advance.
• S/he will provide his/her independent views on the seminar writeup (to the extent possible) and the presentation.
• The feedback recorded by the expert will be shared directly with the Dean of the school and will be used in the final assessment of the seminar.


ANNEXURE - II
SUPPORT COMMITTEES


A. SCHOOL RESEARCH COMMITTEE (SRC)

1. The School Research Committee (SRC) consists of Dean (of school) as ex-officio member and Chairperson, and 2 to 8 faculty members of the school (depending upon faculty members available), at the level of Assistant Professor or above, who are participative in research.
2. The constitution and role of the SRC can be reviewed and revised every year or as per the University notifications.
3. Role of the SRC:

• Supporting and fostering school research and publications
• Providing research structure, guidance, advice, peer - review and mentoring
• fulviewing research projects of the school
• Exploring research funding mechanisms and resources
• Members need to participate in PhD admission interview process
• Facilitating course-work related requirements (e.g. recommending pre-doctoral level coursework (for Category-TTPhD students), school-specific coursework, providing suggestions on summer projects/ independent studies, handling requests related to course waivers, etc.) for PhD students.
• Constituting the Comprehensive Examination Committee (CEC) comprising of select faculty members to administer the Comprehensive Qualif)'ing Examinat.ion (CQE) at the end of doctoral coursework.
• fulviewing status of PhD students and providing recommendations as appropriate.
• Nominating external experts for seminars.
• Assisting in specific PhD school related issues on suggestion by the Dean.


B. RESEARCH ETHICS COMMITTEE

This Committee ensmes that there are suitable guidelines, procedures, codes and other materials that will ensure the ethical standards and scientific merit of research across the University and involving human subjects. Necessary disclosures of methods of data collection, participant's recruitment and engagement, conflict of interest disclosures, and potential vulnerabilities, and others following a mandated checklist are aspects of investigation by the committee so as to ensure that the ethical and scientific standards are maintained and respected.
The PhD student shall be required to fill-up the research ethics policy checklist available with the doctoral program office for every research study that involves human participants. The checklist is used to identify whether a full application for ethics approval needs to be submitted. This checklist must he completed fully and submitted before the Thesis Proposal Seminar (TPS) is scheduled (and before potential participants are approached to take part in your research study).


ANNEXURE - III
SELECT PROGRAM EXHIBITS


A. DOCTORAL COURSEWORK

Phase-I
• Philosophies of Research
• Qualitative Research
• Research Communication & Writing Workshop Course (T)
• Miracle of Teaching and LearningPhase-II
• Quantitative Research
• Research Communication & Writing Workshop Course (II)
• Research and Publication EthicsPhase-III: School/Area Specific Doctoral Coursework

B. TITLE OF CONFERNMENT

SchoolTitle of ConfermentSchool of CommerceDoctor of Philosophy in CommerceSchool of CommunicationsDoctor of Philosophy in CommunicationsSchool of Computer Science
and eneineeringDoctor of Philosophy in Computer Science & EngineeringSchool of EconomicsDoctor of Philosophy in EconomicsSchool of Governance and
Public AffairsDoctor of Philosophy in Public PolicySchool of Human Resource ManagementDoctor of Philosophy in Human Resource ManagementSchool of Human SettlementsFor PhD-U,·ban Management (UMG):
Doctor	of	Philosophy	in	Urban	Management	and Governance

For PhD-Urban & Regional Planning (URP):
Doctor of Philosonhv in PlanningSchool of Rural ManagementDoctor of Philosophy in Rural ManagementSchool of SustainabilityDoctor of Philosophy in Sustainability StudiesXavier Institute of Management, BhubaneswarDoctor of Pbilosophy in Business ManagementXavier Law SchoolDoctor of Philosophy in Law





A. FEES



FEES AND FINANCIAL AIDS

ANNEXURE - IV


• Program Fees for each Academic year, if applicable, must be paid by the due date communicated to the PhD student. A late payment fee of Rs 500/- per day is charged in case of a payment made after the duedate subject to a total of maximum Rs 5000/-
• On admission, students are also requil'ed to pay a one-time refundable/caution deposit. This is returned after all dues are cleared and certificates to that effect are produced
• A PhD student who withdl'aws from the pl'ogramme will forfeit his/he,.caution deposit.
• Students will be l'equired to pay the mess expenses as applicable.
• The fee/charges stipulated may be revised by the University without notice.
• Payment of fees shall follow the instructions communicated by the Accounts Department. Clearance certificate form of the student fo,. fees/dues can also be obtained from the Accounts Office.
• Tf a PhD student defaults in payment of fees, s/he will not be allowed to proceed with the doctoral program process map milestones.
• No Degree certificate will be issued to a PhD student who has not cleared his/her dues. Application for clearance can be made online or offline (based on a form available with the Accounts office). After getting clearance from the stated heads as in the form, it needs to be submitted to the Accounts Office for final clearance. The final clearance form is to be submitted to the Controller of F:xaminations Office after submission of the final thesis.


B. FINANCIAL AIDS

Scholarship:
• Select PhD Students may be the recipient of the "University Sponso,.ed" Scholarship per month subject to their not receiving any other financial assistance in any form pertaining to PhD studies from other sources. The scholarship amount shall be notified separately.
• The scholarship is meant to support the academic necessities of the PhD student to facilitate the research work.
• The PhD students receiving the "University Sponsored" Scholarship are not charged tuition fees (includes, admission, tuition, course material, computer or library).
• The scholarship will be granted only to full-time doctoral students and will commence after doctoral registration. It will be available for a maximum of four (4) years, but will he discontinued in the month the student submits the final thesis for examination, if submitted within this period.




• In case PhD student is m receipt of funds from additional sources Oike scholarships/fellowships from external bodies, etc) or has qualified for receiving any such funds, s/he should communicate the details to the doctoral program office at the onset.
• Any breach of rules may lead to discontinuation of the scholarship awarded to the PhD student.

• Scholarship Administration:
1. PhD students i;,•ranted exemption from the doctoral coursework for an entire phase or for the entil'e coul'sework will not be eligible for scholarship for the concerned pel'iod.
2. The scholarship may be stopped if the assessment of the prob'Tess reports submitted by the PhD student is not considered satisfactol'y.
3. Tf a PhD student fails to complete CQF., DRS, TPS as per the specified timelines (refer to the relevant sections above), the scholarship may be stopped.
,J. During the Thesis Stage, in each academic year, if the PhD student fails to deliver one l'esearch review seminar annually (Section 17), the scholarship may be stopped.
5. PhD students who are granted extra-ordinary leave (Section 12) or leave of absence from the doctoral prog,·am (Section 43) will not be eligible for· scholarship during the leave period.
6. Other terms and condit.ions related to "University Sponsored" Scholarship will be notified separately.


                                                   ANNEXURE-V RULES RELATED TO DISCIPLINE AND MISCONDUCT
1. DISCIPLINE
l.1.  Conduct: The University attaches utmost importance to personal integrity, honesty and discipline. A sense of responsibility and a high degree of maturity is expected of all students inside and outside the campus, as befits future managers and as students of XTM University. The University strives to achieve this standard in every phase of campus life. Each student of the University shall consciously strive to excel in his/her personal as well as academic conduct. A proven case of violation of the aforesaid behavioural norms can result in suitable penalties being imposed on the concerned student.
1.2. Misconduct: The following are considered serious breaches of disdpline and will attract the penalty of immediate expulsion from the Univer-;,ity:
1.2.1. Ragging: Any disorderly conduct whether by verbal or written words or by an
act which has the effect of teasing, treating or handling with rudeness any other student(s), indulging in rowdy or undisciplined activities which causes or is likely to cause annoyance, hardship or physical harm or to raise fear or apprehension thereof in fresher(s) or junior student(s) or any other student(s), asking the student(s) to do any act or perform something which such student(s) will not in the ordinary course and which has the effect of causing or generating a sense of shame or embarrassment so as to adversely affect the physique or psyche of such student(s). As per the Hon'ble Supreme Court's
!,'ltidelines on Rag!,>ing vide SLP. No. 21295 of 2006, in case of any cognizable offences of ragging by a student would be reported to the Police and appropriate action initiated as per law.
1.2.2. Indulging in or aiding/abetting acts of violence, riotous or disorderly behaviour, moral turpitude, directed at a fellow-student or a faculty or any other employee of the University/hostel mess, etc.
1.2.3. Fraud, dishonesty, misappropriation of University funds or funds of Students' Organisations, misuse of Rail/Air concessions, and complicity in other financial iITe!,'ltlarities in connection with studentship of the University.
1.2.4. Involvement in serious academic malpractice, including plagiarism.
1.2.5. Reporting of false or misleading data/information for purposes academic or administrative, as and when detected and established.
1.2.6. Indulging in the violation of community and organisational norms, practices
and values leading to physical and psychological harm to individuals and groups in the community and organisation.
1.2.7. Misuse of the Information 1'ech.nology (LT.) infrastructure of the University
through software, hardware, applications, systems or processes.
1.2.8. Indulging in anonymous slander, deception, harassment, and the like using information technology;
1.2.9. Violation of software copyrights.
1.2.10. Unsolicited communication by group email.


1.2.11. Impersonation or proxy submission of assignments, reports and other documents to the faculty.
1.2.12. Leveling false and baseless allegations against any faculty member or officer
or employee of the University;
1.2.13. Doing or causing to do any act, which is likely to adversely affect the relations of the University with its customers, i.e., industrial organisations;
1.2.14. Indulging in any act or acts, such as, defacing, burning or otherwise damaging any banner or property or equipment of a company, erected by the company or by an Association of XTM University commemorating an event organised 01· sponsored by the company at XIM University;
1.2.15. Indul1,.,-jng in any act subversive of general discipline (the word "discipline" being used here in its generic sense and in its widest amplitude), inside or outside the campus, and/or is detrimental to the reputation, image or standing of the University;
1.2.16. Indul1,.,-jng in dissemination of unsolicited and/or malicious con-espondences either electronically or through hard copies within the University and outside which distorts the image or disturbs the colle1,.,-jate atmosphere of the University;
1.2.17. Notwithstanding any of the above mentioned aspects, the University can immediately expel the student(s) if it deems any act.ion of the student as an act of indiscipline. The decision of the University would be final and binding and by accepting admission in this University, the student on his/her part also accepts this clause in full;
1.2.18. Absence wit.hout prior permission from t.he Dean and the Faculty; and/or mass absence from classes;
1.2.19. Drinking and Drunkenness in the public areas;
1.2.20. Entering the restricted areas like Xerox room in the main building without the express permission of the concerned authority;
1.2.21. Theft, fraud, dishonesty, bribing or attempt to bribe;
1.2.22. Copying in any form in the assignments, projects or in any examination;
1.2.23. Permitting, whether willfully or otherwise, a co-student to copy from one's own answer book or document or material;
1.2.21. Smoking in the campus area;
1.2.25. Communication of written analyses or answers, in any manner whatsoever, to other student(s) in respect of home assignments or projects of individual nature;
1.2.26. Whispering or communicating with one another by means of signs, symbols or gestures or in any other body language in the examination hall;
1.2.27. Any other act of indiscipline, which is herein unspecified and deemed at the time of offence as an inappropriate behaviour and conduct by the Disciplinary Committee of XJM University and/or the management of the University.


2. Disciplinary Procedure
2.1. For any malpractices reported by the invigilator(s) during quizzes, and exams, the Faculty/Instructor/Evaluator will be the sole dii;ciplinary authority acting on his or her judgement and shall give a zero for that component. For project-work, faculty will be the sole authority and impose similar penalty.
2.2. For major acts of indiscipline the Dean shall be the disciplinary authority, acting on his/her own judgment and/or in consultation with the Student Dii;ciplinary Committee/ Academic Committee at his/her discretion. The Dean can award one or more penalties listed in Section 3 below.
2.3. J\ll major allegations brought to the notice of the Dean shall be ordinarily referred to the Student Disciplinary Committee and the Dean shall act on the basis of the report of the Committee. However, in cases of exigencies with time constraints and in cases of extreme gravity, the Dean may award a penalty deemed appropriate in consultation with the Faculty concerned.
2.1. Before imposition of any penalty, the explanation of the student concerned and his/her record of past misconduct, similar or otherwise shall be taken into consideration. Repeat of any misconduct and number of incidents of misconduct shall add to the 1,>ravity of the offence and invite higher penalty.

3. Penalty: One or more of t.he penalties listed below can be awarded to a student for breach of discipline amounting to misconduct:
3.1. Warning;
3.2. Reduction of marks/quality points/grade in a component of a Course;
3.3. Reduct.ion of marks/quality points/grade for the whole Course;
3.4. Fine up to Rs.5,000/-;
3.5. Repeating a course along wit-h the next batch;
3.6. Suspension of studentship for a period of time;
3.7. Expulsion from the University.
3.8. Cancellation or withdrawal of any Academic honours - Certificate of Merit, Degree, Medallion, Scholarship, etc.
3.9. Notwithstanding any of the above mentioned aspects, the University can immediately
expel the student if it deems any action of the student as an act of indiscipline. The decision of the University would be final and binding and by accepting admission in this University, the student on his/her part also accepts this clause in full.

4. Appeal:	In matters of sufficient gravity, a student may appeal within one week of punishment, to the Vice Chancellor for review. 'l'he Vice Chancellor's decision shall be final.

5. Grievance Resolution
5.1. If a student feels that s/he has been unfairly discriminated against or has become a victim of subjectivity or internal inequity during any academic process at XIM University, s/he can make a representation to the Dean within a week of the incident.
5.2. Any student, having a grievance, may submit a written application to the Dean setting out all the circumstances and/or details therein clearly. The grievance application should be signed by the student concerned.


5.3. Anonymous applications/petitions/letters will not be entertained or attended to under any circumstances.
5.4. The representation should set out all the circumstances and grounds, and should be
accompanied by all the relevant documents in support of the allegation. If the Dean is satisfied that the representation is not frivolous or vexatious, and that there is a prima facie case, s/he may constitute a Committee for examining the issue.
(Ui. In all such cases, however, the onus of proving such discrimination, subjectivity or internal inequity, as the case may be, lies entirely on the student concerned. If, at any time during investigation, it is found that the allegations are ma/a fide or wild or without substance, the student concerned will expose himsel!Jherself to the risk of extreme punishment of expulsion from the University as provided herein.

6. Any misconduct or violation of residential rules will be addressed by the Hostel Warden, the Registrar, and the Vice Chancellor in accordance with the Guidelines for Resident Students.

7. Alcoholic Abuse Deterrence Policy
7.1. The University has 1,ero tolerance for possession, solicitation, distribution, sale or useof alcohol on carnpus by the students. The students engaging in any of these shall be expelled from XIM University.
7.2. This policy applies to all students in any tirne and any place on campus. By this policy, the student may receive dismissal notice for t.he following offences:
• alcohol use or possession on campus,
• alcohol use off carnpus that which discredits XTM University,
• in this case you will not be awarded Degree Certificate, without paying penalty of Rs.1,00,000/-.
7.3. On dismissal from XIM University, the student may apply for readmission by paying penalty of Rs.1,00,000/- and providing sufficient and necessary information on the steps that the student has taken to undergo treatment for alcohol abuse de-addiction. Student's readmission request must accompany Doctor's certification as proof of sufiicient treatment for reducing alcohol dependency and abuse.
7.4. 'l'he readmission request of the student shall be made formally to the Vice Chancellor by an application along with Rs.1,00,000/- and upon receipt of this application, the students readmission request shall be reviewed by a committee set up for this purpose by the Vice-Chancellor. 'l'he Vice-Chancellor is the final authority to decide on readmission.
7.5. The University will appreciate any voluntary reporting about any student who has past history of alcohol abuse. This will be treated confidentially for the purpose of proposing de-addiction treatment of the student.


ANNEXURE - VI
DOCTORAL RE-REGISTRATION

1. The clauses below apply to candidates who have been de-registered or have discontinued from the doctoral program, XIM University, Bhubaneswar.
2. In order to qualify for a re-rei;.--istration, the candidate needs to apply to the Vice-Chancellor, XJM University for re-registration into the doctoral program within two year(s) of the date of de-reb--istration/discontinuation. A G'Opy of the application should also be forwarded to the doctoral program office and the Dean.
3. The candidate shall need to fill-up the doctoral re-registration form in complete and submit to the admissions office as per the requirements.
4. The application submitted along with the specified attachments and views received from the candidate's previous facilitator and the school where the candidate was registered shall be examined by an appropriate committee.
5. The doctoral re-registration might involve additional procedures as recommended by the committee as in Clause 1.
6. On acceptance of the doctoral re-re!,>istration applicat-ion, a communication will be sent to the candidate from the admissions office.
7. The candidate needs to confirm thats/he will be re-joining the doctoral prOb'Tam, and pay the necess31'y fees as applicable.
8. The candidate needs to rejoin XJM University as per the date notified.
9. Within a month of re-joining, the scholar will need to submit an expected thesis completion timeline stating the expected completion dates of the dissertation milestones pending as per the doctoral MoP. The timeline needs to be consistent with the provisions given in Section 6.
10. If the candidate fails again to complete the program within the deadlines, his/her registration will be cancelled, and s/he will not be getting another chance to re-register in the doctoral prO!,'Tam.
11. All other procedm-es shall follow the clauses specified in this doctoral MoP.










































