

Student Manual of Policies
(w.e.f June 2025}
























XIM University
Bhubaneswar

Contents




Scope and Applicability
SECTION-1: GENERAL INFORMATION
XIM University
Vision, Mission and Values Culture
SECTION-2 : DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE
Discipline
Disciplina1y Procedures
Alcohol Abuse and Narcotics Deterrence Policy (Violation of NOPS Act 1985)
Prohibition of Body-shaming
Protection of Rights /dignity of Members of LGBTQIA + COMMUNITY Prohibition ofCyber-bullying and Cyber llarassment
Print and Visual Media, and Social Media Policies Dressing Nmms
Ragging:
Grievances -Appe;ils and Rcdrcssals
SECTION-3 : LIBRARY
SECTION-4: EXAMINATION REGULATIONS ANO GUIDELINES
Guidelines for Sntdcnts During Examinations Guidelines for the Open Book Examination
Guidelines for Examination that Require Computation Effort Examination Conduct and Procedures
List of Examination Malpractice and Penalties Procedure to Deal with Cases of Malpractices Examination Oisciplina,y Issues
SECTION-5 : STUDENTS' RESIDENCE
POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMME
SECTION-I ACADEMIC PROGRAM
Program Overview Trimester/ Semester System Registration

Page
07
08
08
08
09
10
IO
12
14

16
16
16
17
17
18
18
20
22
22
24
25
25
25
27
27
29

38
38
39
39


Withdrawal from Admission Fees and Refund
Late Fee Payment Loans
Student Committees
Co-curricular and Extra-curricular Activities
SECflON-2 CURRICULAR POLICIES
Curriculum Requirement Course Workload Scheduling of Classes Choice of Rlectives Waiver of Core Courses
Independent Research Project (IRP) Summer Internship Program (SIP) Programme SpecificAeademic Module Co-curricular Component
Student Exchange Program Social Engagement
SECTION-3 STUDENT'S ATTENDANCE
Attendance Requirement
Eligibility for End-term/semester Examinations Reasons for Which Leave May Be Granted SECfION-4 EVALUATION SYSTEM
Evaluation System
Grading Patterns and Nonns Policy on Plagimism
Self-inspection of Answer Scripts
Re-evaluation of End Term/semester Answer Scripts Feedback
Pe,formance Counseling
Make-up Examination And Number Of Chances
SECTION-5-AWARD OF DEGREE
Qualifying Standards for Award of Degree

Page
40
40
40
41
41
41
42
42
43
43
43
44
44
45
46
48
48
49
50
50
50
51
52
52
54
55
56
56
57
58
59
60
60


Disqualification forAward of Degree Degree and Transcripts
Medals of Academic Excellence
SECTION-6 CAREER ADVISORY SERVICES (CAS)
Guiding Principles for the Student Cas Commiuee Code of Conduct
Placement Etiquettes Resume Guidelines Absence Policy Payment of Fines Disputes and Appeal
Summer Internship Progrnm (Sil') Final Career Advisory Service
SECTION -7 PROGRAM \VISE CORE AND ELECTIVE COURSES
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMl\·lE
SECTION-1
Programme Overview Academic Progrnmme Details Registration
Scholarship
Fees
Curriculum Design Pedagogy Online/digital Pedagogy Class Timings Attendance
Edigibility toAppear for End Semester Examination Leave of Absence
Components of Evaluation Examination and Declaration of Results
Grading and Computation of Sgpa & Cgpa Policy on Plagiarism
Award of Honours Medals

Page
60
62
62
63
63
63
65
66
66
67
67
67
68
69

98
98
98
99
100
104
104
104
104
105
106
106
106
107
107
108
113
114
114

PageStudent Performance Feedback115Course Feedback By the Students115Grievanc E- Appeals and Redressals115Miscellaneous115SECTION-2116Value Added-programmes116Rural Social Engagement Programme:116National Service Scheme (NSS)I 16Magis Exchange-programme117Internships117SECTION-3120Features of the 4-year Degree Program120SECTION-4122Progntmme Structure & Course Lists122SCHOOL WISE CONTACT DETAILSIR3
Scope and Applicability

This Manual of Policies(MoP)comes intoe.Jlec1from the date of registration and supersedes all previous versions of 1he student policy manuals issued in earlier years and versions and comes intoej}ect.from June 2025 and it is applicable to all students registered and currently pursuingundergraduate and postgraduate programmes underX/J\1University.
Thepolicies prescribed in t/11'.t lvfanualshall applytoal/suchsuuients wilhoutprejudiceto: Anyactionsor decisions already taken in the previous academicyea,:
Any special rules framed or to be framed concerning academics. e.xaminations, student residence (hostel.1), career advis01y services, librwJ,, computer cente1; disciplinwy ac:tions, or any othermatter asdeemed appropriate by the c:ompetent authoritieso.ftheUniversity.
Eve,y student must secure acopyof the Manual1>[Policies (MoP) for Students andcare/idly go through all the prescribed rules and policies. Ignorance of the contents of this Manual will not be accepted as ground for exemption or special consideration under any circ:umstances. The onus,>[beinginformed liessolely with the student.
Disclaimer
The statements made in this Student Manual of Po/ides (A1oP) and all other injc,nnation contained herein are believed to be correct elf the time of publication. However, XIM University, reserves the sole right to make changes in and additions to the policies, regulations, conditions goveming student conduct, degree requirements,fees, or any other i11formation or statements in thisJUan.ual at anytime,asdeemed necessary.
The University shall not be held responsib/efor any hanlship, expense, or inconvenience caused to students or any other individuals due to such changes, additions, omissions, or errors-regardlessofthemanner in which they occw:


     Registrar X/M University

      SECTION-I GENERAL INFORMATION


1.1 Xll\1 UNIVERSITY
A Digital University, A Research University, An Innovative University, A Jesuit University with a Vision. XIM University wasearlier Xavier University. Xavier University wasestablished on 6"' July 2013 videThe Xavier University, OdishaAct, 2013. With the passage of time and based on theexperience acquired over thepast twelve years, the management and Board of Governors of Xavier University, Bhubancswar, were convinced that the name 'Xavier University,' should be replaced with 'XIM' University, to keep the 'XIM' brand name, which had been known in the count,y and around the world for 38 years since its inception in 1987. Students who receive a certificate bearing the 'XIM' brand name will find better career prospects in the country and abroad.The business, corporations, transfonnation leaders, and thegrowth sectors all recognize this brand. XIM has brought laurels, prestige, and honour to the state of Odisha and bas se,ved the state and the nation through its extensive network and relationships. Therefore, the state governmentofOdisha agreed to theproposal to establish the XIM University.
On 3"' April 2021, the Xavier University, Odisha Act, 2013 was amended vidc The Xavier University, Odisha (Amendment) Act, 2021, renaming Xavier University as XIM University. Thesame wasofficially notified in The Odisha StateGazette on 1 I"'May2021.
As per theprovisions of University, it has its main campus at Nijigada Kurki, Harirajpur, in Puri District, and an additional campus at XavierSquare, Bhubaneswar, where theXavier Institute of Management functions. The XIM University inherits the legacy of more than three-decade old X IM (Xavier Institute of Management), oneof the country's premier, world-class B-School. Our faculty, statl;and students represent diverse faiths and identities, but.weall aspire tobe men and women for and with others. Our students are taught the value of experience, cutiosity, global experiences, and 'cura personalis', which translates to 'care for the whole person'. There is a strong intention to be the first to respond to society's needs and encourage sustainable societies that motivate the state and countty's futures, acting as a change agent. Education for moral charncter, adaptability, world aftinnatioo and faith tbat serves justice are all hallmarks oftbis philosophy.
1.2 VISION, MISSION AND VALUES VISION
'To be a leading global Jesuit university, innovative in academia, grooming compassionate and resilient leaders to lead organizations for a just, equitable and sustainable society"
MISSION
In the spirit ofMagis, XIM University strives to:
Promote innovation in learning and the total ecosystem
Nurture multidisciplinary thinkingand lead next practice research Serve society by empowering all sections of society
Lead digital thinking in social and developmental issues Establish trnst in the higher education arena

VALUES
• Integrity Excellence Inclusiveness Compassion Sustainability
1.3 CULTURE
The faculty, the s11,clents and the administration ofXIM University contribute to thebuilding up of anorganizationalculture marked byesprit de corps, confidence, and mutual respect, concern for others' needs, hard work, social values, personal maturity and integrity. The University's culture is that the students be at case and confident in dealing with people in all walksoflifc.

         SECTlON-2 DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES

2.1 DISCIPLINE
2.1.1 Conduct:
The University attaches utmost importance to personal integrity, honesty and discipline. A sense of responsibility and a high degree of maturity is expected of all students inside and outside the campus, as befits future managers and as students of XIM University. The University strives to achieve this standard in every aspect of campus life. Each student of the University shall consciously strive toexcel in her/his personal as welI as academic conduct. A proven case of violation of the aforesaid behavioural norms can expose the student to deprivation of the Degree, a place in the merit list, award of medal, disqualification from participating in Convocation andother such penalties as deemed fit bytheappropriate authority of the University.
2.1.2 J\iisconduct:
The following arc considered serious breaches of discipline and will attract the penalty ofimmediate expulsion from the University:
(a) Indulging in the violation of community and organisational norms, practices and values during Summer Internship or any otherexternal academic or non-academic activity leading to physicaland psychological hannto individuals and groupsin the community and organisation.
(b) Impersonation or proxy submission of assignments, reports and otherdocuments to the faculty.
(c) Leveling false and baseless allegations against any employees of the XIM Univcrsity;
(d) Doing or causing lo do any act, which is likely to adversely aJTect the relations of the University with its stakeholders' partners and collaborators, including alumni, currentand prospective students, clientorganizations and institutions;
(e) Indulging in any act or acts of individual or group or mob violence inside the University premise,s, such as, defacing, discoloring, burning, rampaging, holding hostage, shouting, rapping or otherwise damaging any banner, fascia, festoons or property or equipmentof a company, erected by any School or by an Association of the University, commemorating an event organized or sponsored by any School,or company al the University; or resorting toany actsof physical violence inany fom1 on person or property of the University whether within or outside the premises of the University.
(f) Indulging in any act subversive of general discipline (the word "discipline" being used here in its generic sense and in its widest amplitude), inside or outside the campus, and/or is detrimental to the reputation, image or standing of the University;

(g) 	Entering the restricted areas like the Examination Hall, Administrative Offices, Offices of the Vice Chancellor, Registrar, Chief Finance Officer, Controller of Examinations, Deans of any School, and such other places without the express permission of theconcerned authority;
(h) Theft, fraud, dishonesty, bribing or attempt to bribeany person within oroutside the University;
(i) Copying inany form in theassignments, projects orinanyexamination;
G) Pennitting, whether willfully or otherwise, a co-student to copy from one's own answerbookor document or material;
(k) Smoking in thecampusarea;
(I) Communication of written analyses or answers, inany manner whatsoever, to other studcnt(s) in respect of home assignments orprojects of individual nature;
2.1.3 Sexual Harassment:
(a) Any act of physical abuse including all variants of it: sexual abuse, homosexual assaults, stripping, forcing obscene and lewd acts, gestures, causing bodily harm or any other danger to health or person.
(b) Any act of physical or mental abuse (including bullying and exclusion) targeted at another student (fresher or otherwise) on the ground of colour, race, religion, caste,
(c) The University is committed to ensure the rights and dignity of LGBTQIA+/AHernative sexuality in its Campus. Therefore, any act, comments, gestures either digitally or physically intending to violate the right/dignity of LGBTQIA+/Altemate Sexuality in its Campus would be dealt with appropriately which may lead to suspension imposition of fine, reduction in academic grade and cancellation of studentship.
( c) Notwithstanding any of the above-mentioned aspects, the University can immediately expel the student(s) ifit deems any action of the student as an act of indiscipline or take any fonu of immediate punitive action against such perpetrators. The decision of the University would be final and binding on such students and by accepting admission in this University, the sn1dcnt on her/his part alsoaccepts this para-in foll without any prejudice.
2.1.4 Classroom Conduct
(a) A Classroom as an academic space is a no mobile zone. Students found in the classroom wearing earphones or with a cellphone on their person/bag will face disciplinary action. Please deposit your mobile phone in thephone holder once you enter any class room.
(b) Students are required to maintain high standards of classroom interaction quality and conduct. Any behavior considered to be indecent or intolerable by the concerned faculty or staff will lead to strictdisciplinary action bySchool against the student. The classroom is a "No Mobile Phone Area". Therefore, using cell

phones is not permitt.ed unless the faculty concerned has given permission to use it for classroom or academic purposes. Should a student carry a cell phone in person, s/he shall keep it switched off failing which theconcerned course faculty may expel thedefaulting student from that session and may farther debar such students from attending theconcerned course. Please do not ask for CCTV footage when a mobile orits accessories are lost in academic spaces.
(c) Giving highest regard to safety, law and orderand considering the well-being of all members ofXIM University and its pupils, XIM University compliances with the UGC mandate and the sovereign laws of the land. XI M University endeavors to adhere, implement and enforce the Mandates of the UGC regulations pertaining to the below mentioned subject/item in the Manual of Policies- the governing document forstudents conduct within and outside the University Campus.
(d) Absence without prior permission from the Dean and the faculty; and/or mass absence from classes where mass absence would mean morethanor equal to 25%of thestrength oft heclasssection;
(e) Assets of the University must not be used for personal entertainment or any unauthorized purposes. Prior permission is required for their usage beyond academic needs.
(f) To maintain cleanliness and hygiene Students are strictly prohibited from eating or canying food items insidetheclassroom.
(g) Tampering with the projector wall, writing on desks or tables, or causing any damage to classroom property isstrictly forbidden.
(h) Classrooms are for academics only. Students should refrain from assembling inside theclassroom without academic purposes lo maintain orderanddiscipline.
(i) Students must vacate theclassroom promptly after thecompletion of theirclasses to ensuresmooth functioning of theacademic schedule.
(j) The class representatives (CRs) are responsible for ensuring the proper usage of fans, lights, air conditioners, audio-visual systems, and any other University assets assigned to the room.
(k) Before leaving the classroom, students must ensure that chairs and desks are properlyplaced and notdisturbed to maintain orderliness.
2.2 DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES
2.2.1 For minor acts of indiscipline, relating to Courses, such as conduct of classes, assignments, quizzes and class examinations the Faculty/Evaluator shall be the sole disciplinary authority acting on her/hisown judgment. A Faculty can award penalties mentioned in 2.2.6listed below.
2.2.2 	For major acts of indiscipline, the Registrar shall be thedisciplinary authority, acting on his own judgment and/or in consultation with thedean of a schoolor as advised by the Student Disciplinary Committees/ Academic Committee at his

discretion. The Registrar can award one or more penalties listed in 2.2.6 based on their recommendation below.
2.2.3 All major allegations brought to the notice of the Registrar can be referred to the Student Disciplinary Committees and the Registrar shall act based on the repo1t of the Committee. However, in cases of exigencies with timeconstraints and/or in cases of extreme gravity, the Registrar may award a penalty deemed appropriate in consultation with the faculty concerned and/or the Faculty Council of the School. In matters of extreme gravity and/or if the matter pertains to other Schools of University in addition to the schoolconcerned, the Registrar of the University, may refer the matter to a Special Committee set up for the purpose. The Registrar, upon recommendation of the Special Committee or the Student Disciplinary Committee, as the case may be, if necessary, award additionaland separate punitive actionas deemed fit.
2.2.4 Before imposition of any penalty, the explanation of the student concemed and her/his record of past misconduct, similar or otherwise shall be taken into consideration.Repeat of any misconduct and numberof incidents of misconduct shall add to the gravity of the offence and invite higher penalty or may result in expulsion from the University.
2.2.5 University DisciJ>linary Committee
The University has its own disciplina1y committees (University Discipline Committee & Examination Discipline Committee) that is authorized by the Vice- Chancellor to conduct disciplinary proceedings, to settle disciplinary charges, to impose disciplinary sanctions, or to hear appeals thereof in cases involving any violation of the rulesand regulations of the University.
2.2.6 Penalty: One or more of the penalties listed below can be awarded to a student for breach of discipline amounting to misconduct:
(a) Written Warning;
(b) Violation of any MoP provision will result in cessation ofScholarship.
(c) Violation of any MoP provision will result in not being a member and PoR or PoC ofany student committee.
(d)		Violation. of any MoP provision will result in not being awarded Good Conduct Certificate.
(e) For Violation ofNDPS-Immediate removal from Residence & Infonnation to Parents
(I) Reduction of marks/quality points/grade in a particular component ofa Course; Reduction of marks/quality points/grade for the whole Course;
(g) Afineas decided by the Disciplinary Committee.
(h) Repeating a course of the first/second year as the case may be, along with the next batch;

(i) In cases where a student is awarded an "I" grade in a course as a penalty for malpractice during examinations, lhe student may remove the "I" grade by taking the course the next time it is offered during the next year, concurrently with theothercourses thatshe/he has to takeduring thatpa1ticular term.
(j) Suspension of studentship for a year;
(k) Suspension from attending and participating in Convocation of the University ordebarred from availing Career Advisory Scrvicc.s of the University;
(I) Cancellation or withdrawal of any Academic honors - Certificate of Merit, Diploma, Medallion, Scholarship, etc.
(m) Suspension of studentship for a year/debarred from appearing in the examinations.
(n) Expulsion from the residence, and/or University with immediate effect.
(o) Notwithstanding any of the above-mentioned aspects, the University can immediately expel or take any other appropriate punitive and/or corrective action against the student if it deems any action of the student as an act of indiscipline. The decision of the University would be final and binding and by accepting admission in this University, tbe student on her/his part and his/her representativealsoaccepts lhis para-in full without any prejudice.
(p) Appeal: In matters of sufficient gravity, a student may appeal within one week of punishment, to the Vice Chancellor for review. The Vice Chancellor's decision shall be final.
2.3 ALCOHOL ABUSE AND NARCOTICS DETERRENCE POLICY (Violation of NDPSAct1985)
The University has zero tolerance for possession, solicitation, distribution, sale or use of alcohol and other psychotropic and/or narcotic substances of any form, kind and manner on campus by the students. The students engaging in any of these shall be expelled from the University, which includes all the schools and other units under the University. The offence will be immediately reported to their parents and the local police.
Thispolicy applies to allstudents in any timeand any place onoroutside the campus. By this policy, the student may receive dismissal notice for the followingoffences:
(a) Alcohol or other psychotropic and/or narcotic substances of any fonn, kind and manner use or possession on campus, or in person, within University premises. Alcohol or other psychotropic and/or narcotic of any fonn, kind and manner substance use off campuswhich discredits the School and the University,
(b) Drinking and Dnmkenne.ss within or outside the University premises, including drugand narcotics substance abuseofany means and form;
(c) In such cases the student will not be awarded a Degree or Diploma Certificate, without paying a penalty of INR 1,00,000/-, Parents will also be infom1ed accordingly.

(d) On dismissal from the school, the student may apply for readmission by paying penalty of INR 1,00,000/- and providing sufficient and necessary information on the steps that the student has taken to undergo de-addiction treatment for alcohol or other psychotropic and/or narcotic of any form, kind and manner substance abuse. Student's readmission request must accompany Doctor's certification as proof of sufficient treatment for reducing alcohol dependency and other above­ mentioned abuse.
(e) 	The readmission request of the student shall be made formally by an application along with INR 1,00,000/- and upon receipt of this application, the students readmission requestshall bedecided bythe following committee:
I. Registrar
11.	Dean, Academics of theSchool
III. Coordinator/ Chair, University Disciplinary Committee
IV. Student Counsellor or Coordinator, Counselling Comrnillee
V. Coordinator/ Chair, Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee
The University will appreciate any voluntary rep01ting aboutanystudent who has past history of alcohol or dmg abuse. This will be treated confidentially for thepurpose of proposing de-addiction treatment of thestudent.

SI.
No.Subj t matter/ ItemGoverning RegulationISexual Harassment (Prevention, Prohibition and Rcdrcssal)bttps://www.ugc.ac.in/pdfnews/7203627_ UGC_regu lations
-harassment.pdf
The Sexual Harassment or women at workplace (Prevention, l'rohibition and Rcdrcssal) Act, 20132Alcohol	deterrence	and
prevention	of drug abuseUniversity GranlS Commission (UGC) has issued a circular to all Vice Chancellors on 02.04.2013 regarding strict adherence to the provisions of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Adve11isement and Regulation of Trade andCommerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003 and its Rules l,C., Cigarette::; and other Tobacco ProduclS (Packaging and Labelling) Rules,2008.Circular issued on 27.&.2013 by UGC for implementation of the actionable poinlS or the National Policy on Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances (NDPS). NDPS deals with steps to tackle the problem of sale of drng to school and college children.
https://mhrd.gov.in/stcps-prcvcnt-drug-	abuse- colleges Report on Alcohol use in Dr. Rajendra Prasad Government
Medical College (RPGMC) Kangra,Himachal Pradesh(Committee Constituted by the Hon'blc Supreme Court).
3Anti-Ragginghnps://www.ugc.ac.in/oldpdf/ragging/gazzetaug20I0
.pdfhttps:// www.ugc.ac.in/pdfnews/7823260_Anti- Ragging- 3rd-Amendmem.pdf20164Deterrence towards causing bodily hann or
mental harmhttps://www.nitt.edu/home/students/UGC_Regulatio ns.pdf Indian Penal Codel860-0ffences Affecting Life5Deterrence of Cybcr law
violationInformation ofTechnology Act 2000 bttps://www.meity.gov.in/writcreadda lililcs/itbill20 00.pdf hnp://cyberpolicebangalore.nic.in/pd£'Cyber%201aw
%20TP
C.pdf
2.4 PROHIBITION OFBODY-SHAMING
The unive• ity strictly prohibits body-shaming of any individual including Students/ Staff/ Faculty. If anybody found in violating the same, would be subjected to appropriate disciplinary action, including suspension, fine, reduction in academic grade and cancellation of studentship. Body shaming ordinarily means the action or practice of humiliating someone by making or mocking or critical comments about their body shape orsi:le,either physically ordigitally orbygestures or movements.
2.5 PR0TEC'fI0N OF RIGHTS /DIGNITY OF MEMBERS OF LGBTQIA +
COMMUNITY
The university is committed to ensure the rights and dignity of LGBTQIA+ in its Campus. Therefore, any act,comments, gestures either digitally or physically intending to violate the right/dignity of LGBTQIA+ in its Campus would be dealt with appropriately which may lead to suspension imposition of fine, reduction in academic gradeand cancellation of studentship.
2.6 PROHIBITION OFCYBER-BULLYINGAND CYBERHARASSMENT
(a) Cyber-bullying or cyber harassment by any student targeted towards the fellow students, staff: faculty, etc. constitutes a conduct that disrupts the educational environment of the University.
(b) Students are prohibited from indulging in the acts of cyber-bullying or cyber harassment using any electronic technology, which includes, but is not limited to, devices and equipment such as cell phones, computers, and tablets as well as communication tools, including, but not limited to, text messages, chat platfonns, websites and social media site.s like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube etc. and biogs. Students who use University networks or technology to conduct such activity may bedisciplined in accordance with theextant laws in force or notified in future or may lead to levy of fines, loss of academic grade-points, suspension, lossofstudentship or anyother retributive action,as deemed fit bythe University.
1.	Thefollowing areexamples of instances where social media can cause harm to

the University or a member of the University community or may violate policies: A student establishes a Twitter account that encourages others to submit negative anonymous messages to an account that will be redistributed bytheaccountholder.
11.  A student establishes a fakeaccount under the name of a University official or School and use-s the name and trademark to post vicious comments or other contents.
m. A student uses his or her blog or social media account to berate or otherwise discussengagement with or judgment of a fellow student's/faculty/staffs work or otherinformation considered confidential orpersonal.
2.7 PRINTAND VlSUALl.\'lEDIA AND SOCIALM.EDIA POLICIES
(a) Students arc expected not to interact, on behalf of the university, with media representatives or invite media persons to the campus without the permission of the lnstituteauthorities.
(b) Students are not permitted to record either audio or video lectures in classrooms, actionsof otherstudents, faculty, or staff without priorpermission.
(c) Students are not pennitted to provide audio and video clippings of any activity on campus to the media without priorpermission.
(d) Students are expected lo use social media carefully and responsibly. They cannot post derogatory comments about other individuals from the Institute on social media or indulge in any such related activities that could have negative ramifications onthereputation of the University.
2.8 DRESSING NORl.\'lS
(a) Students arc expected to be soberly dressed [business casual, smart casual, business formals) unless theday's tasks require otherwise. Students must always present a clean, professional appearance. Everyone is expected to be well­ groomed and wearclean clothing, freeofholes, tears, or other signsof wear.
(b) The Bar Council of India vidc its circular no-2 of 2016 dated 17/04/2016 has introduced mandatory dress code for Law students in Law school /Colleges & Universities imparting Legal education in India. The snidents are required to appear in formal attire for advocates inside the class & Library including the reading room on Monday, Wednesday & Friday of every week/ or any other day notified for the purpose. thefemale students can wear SALWAR (Black), KURTA (\Vhite) as unifo1m on Monday, Wednesday & Friday. On therest of thedays of the week , the students are expected to be dressed in formals. None adherence to the Uniform rule will result in lossof attendance.

2.9 RAGGING:
(a) Any conduct by any student or students whether by words spoken or written or by an act which has theeffect of teasing, treating or handling a fresher or any other student with mdeness.
(b) Indulging in rowdy or indisciplined activities by any student or students which causes or is likely to causeannoyance, hardship, physical or psychological harmor to raisefearor apprehension thereofin any fresheror anyother student.
(c) Asking anystudent to do any act which such student will not in theordinary course do and which bastheeftect of causing or generating a sense of shame, ortonnentor embarrassment so as to adversely affect the physique or psyche of such fresher or anyotherstudent.
(d) Any act by a senior student that prevents, disrupts or disturbs theregular academic activity of any other studentor a fresher.
(e) Exploiting the services of a fresher or any other student for completing the academic tasksassigned toan individualora groupof students.
(f) Any act offinancial extortion or forceful expenditure burden put on a fresher orany other student bystudents
(g) Any act of physical abuse including all variants of it: sexual abuse, homosexual assaults, stripping, forcing obscene and lewd acts,gestures, causing bodily harmor anyotherdanger to health orperson;
(h) Any act or abuse by spoken words, emails, post, public insults which would also include deriving perverted pleasure, vicarious or sadistic thrill from actively or passively participating in the discomfiture to fresheror anyother student.
(i) Any act that aITects the mental health and self-confidence of a fresher or any other student with or without an intent toderivea sadistic pleasure orshowing offpower, authority orsuperiority byastudentoverany fresher oranyotherstudent.
RAGGING is a cognizable offence under prevailing Indian laws and will be reported to police. Thereafter, the law will take its own course of action. The University has its own internal body called Anti-Ragging Committee which will deal with the ragging related matters.
2.10 GRIEVANCES-APPEALSAND REDRESSALS
2.10.1 Grievance Appeal: In matters of sufficient gravity, a student may appeal within one week of award of the punishment, to the Vice Chancellor for review. The Vice Chancellor'sdecision shall befinal and bindingonthestudent and his representatives.
2.10.2 Grievance Resolution
(a) All grievances should be addressed by the student in a peacefol and civilized manner.

(b) Any student, havinga grievance, may submit a written application lo the Vice Chancellor setting out all the circumstances and/or details therein clearly. The grievance application should be signed by the student concerned.
( c) Anonymous applications/petitions/lellers will not be entertained or attended to under anycircumstances.
(d) 	lfa student, having obtained grade"D" or grade "F" in any course, feels that he has been unfairly discriminated against in evaluation/grading or has become a victim of subjectivity or internal inequity, he can make a representation to the Dean withinseven daysafterreceiving thegrade. No grievance shall be considered, if thest.udenthas obtained anygrade above

(e) The representation should set out all the circumstances and grounds and should be accompanied by all the relevant documents in support of the allegation. If the Dean is satisfied that the representation is not frivolous or vexatious, and that there is a prima facie case, s/he may constitute a committee in consultation with the area concerned and get the papers/issue re- examined after the consultation with Controller of Examination (CoE)andthedecision of said committee is final.
(f) In all such cases, however, the onus of proving such discrimination, subjectivity or internal inequity, as the case may be, lies entirely on the student concerned. If, at anytime during investigation, it is found that the allegations arc mala fide or fictitious or without substance, the student concerned willexpose herself/himself to the risk of extreme punishment of expulsion from the University as provided herein.
(g) Misconduct related to residential mies will be dealt by the Residence Prefect and the Registrar, as per the guidelines for residence students (GFRS) ofXIM University.

SECTION-3 LIBRARY

3. LIBRARY
The library of XI M University plays a vital role in the academic pursuit of student, faculty and researchers adding to the intellectual vibrancy of the campus. The library remains hybrid with equal emphasis to printand digital resources. The library has been developing it.s resource collections, which include books, periodicals, databases, e­ books, e-journals, audio-visual materials, cases, company annual reports, working papers & newspapers by usingstate-of-the-art facilities overtheyears.
3.1 The library provides remote (anywhere/anytime) access to e-books, e­ journals, openarchives and otherdigital resources through the UMS.
3.2 Besides the print resources, library subscribe various national and international e- resources in the form of corporate andeconomic database like EBSCO, ABI, Proquest Complete, Taylor & Francis, Elsevier Science Direct, JSTOR, J-Gate, Sage Database, EPWRF, ISi Emerging market, CMIE Prowess, India Stat, LexisNexis. The library has subscribed BLOOMBERG database & Grammarly Software. The service and tools provided by the library helps theusers toenrich their research activities andsave theirtime.
3.3 The library assists the teaching community in developing course materials through its Institutional repository services. In addition to its own resources, XIM University library offers Reference services, Research suppo1t services, Circulation services, Database training support, User orientation services, Document dclive,y, Audio- visual services, Online catalogue/OPAC services, Anti-Plagiarism services, Newspaper clipping, Display of new arrivals and Rcprographic services to theuser'scommunity.
3.4 The Library Information System is accessible to its users both from within and outside thecampus.
3.5 The Online library portal is accessible across the campus network round the clock.
(a) XIM University Library goes far beyond just a compilation of books. It is a treasure house of information and knowledge that employs trai11ed professionals lo preserve, systematize, and administer so that they can contribute successfully to thecontinuing education and self-improvement of students, research scholars, and faculty members by providing meaningful assistance in identifying, extracting, and disseminating proper information from the maze of materials available in its resources. Since its inception, it has had an enviable collection of books, textbooks, reference materials, e-books, electronic databases, and professional journals worldwide. Over the years, it

has acquired other resources such as Ph.D. Thesis, audiovisuals, working papers, annual reports, and summer projects. The Bloomberg Lab in the Library is thefirstof its kind in theeastern region ofindia.
(b) Besides the print materials, the Libraries have various electronic resources in the form of Corporate and Economic databases (Indian/International) like EBSCO (Business Source Complete), ABI Inform Complete, Taylor & Francis, Elsevier (Science Direct), JSTOR, Emerald Management Xtra, Sage Database, J-gatc, ISi Emerging Market database, CMJE, India Business Insight, Statista, Euromonitor International and India stat, LexisNexis, EPWRF,Taxmann, DELN ET, and I EEE-CSDL. XIM library subscribes toe­ books from reputed publishers like Harvard Business Publishing, Oxford,
Springer Cambridge, Sage-e-Yidya, and Ebrary
(c) All the onlinc resources arc accessible from inside and outside campus through RemoteXs controlled by UMS.
(d)	XIM University libra1y offers Reference, Document Delive1y, Circulation,
OPAC, Anti-Plagiarism,Newspaper Clipping,andRcprographic services
(e)	Misuseofany literary resources can affect penal actions.
3.6 Timing:
(a)	Thclibra,y remains open from 08.30AMto05.00AM.

(b)
( c)

Post GraduateTiming: 08:30AM to 05:00AM UnderGraduate Timing: 08:30 AM to I 0:00 PM

            SECTlON-4 EXAMINATION REGULATIONS AND
GUIDELINES
4.1 GUIDELINESFORSTUDENTSDURINGEXAl\UNATIONS
4. l. I Astudent should reportatthe examination hall at least 15 minutes before the scheduled timeof theexam.Astudent will not be allowed intoexamination hall after the commencement of the examination. If a student is late in mTiving at the exam venue the Chief Invigilator/Invigilator is at the sole discretion to allow or disallow such late comers. It is the primary responsibility of the student to beavailable at the exam venue well ahead in time.
4.1.2 All students mustbring their Identity Card to the Exam venue, and it should be kept on their desk during the entire examination. Failure to do so may render the student to be expelled from the exam venue and exam will be cancelled.
4.1.3 Each student is expected to bring their own writing equipment/aid including ruler, calculator, etc., into the examination hall, as pem1itted by the instructor. Exchanging/borrowing of writing equipment/aid from other examinees is notpermitted at any timeduringthe examination.
4.1.4 Carrying of mobile phones or any electronics/bluetooth device including smait watch, health watch etc. into the examination hall is strictly prohibited. Students are also not allowed to keep mobile phones / any electronics gadget with them even in switched off or silent mode during examination. If a student has any kind of electronic gadgets/ mobile phone with him/her then she/he must deposit it with the invigilator.; before the examination begins. Failure to adhere to this rule will immediately cause the exam to stand cancelled and the student will be asked to leave the examination hall by theInvigilators after filling the incident report.
4.1.5 	Any electronic gadget/mobile phones confiscated during the exam shall remain with the COE Office and returned to the student only after disciplinary process is over.The University shall not be responsible for any loss of any electronic items confiscated during the examination. Students are, therefore advised to refrain from carrying, possessing or wearing any electronic devices to theexamination hall.
4.1.6 Unless specifically permitted by the Examiner/Invigilator,use of pencil for writing answers is notdesirable. Answers should be legible, and all answer­ sheets must be properly page-numbered and tagged/ stapled. Failure to follow the instructions contained herein as well as thosegiven in writing or verbally during theexamination shall attract penalty as deemed appropriate by the Authority.

4.1.7 A student attending any examination may be frisked before, during or after the examination if deemed fit by the Invigilators or any other appropriate staff of the University.
4.1.8 All tests are "closed book" unless explicitly specified othenvise by the faculty concerned with prior intimation to the Dean's Oftice and the Controller of Examinations Office. No paper, books, or notes, etc. are allowed into the examination hall, except when the test is declared to be "open-book."
4.1.9 Any notes/incriminating documents found in possession or recovered from students or any exchange of remarks, notes or purposeful gestures, or glances at anotherstudent's paper in theexamination hall will beconsidered as an att.empt to cheat and will be treated as a malpractice. The invigilator will report this to the Controller of Examinations in the prescribed Incident form where both thestudentand the invigilator will be required to sign.This will immediately cause the exam to stand cancelled and thestudent will be asked to leave the examination hall by the Invigilators after filling the incident report.
4.1.10 Except for essential communication with the invigilator, a student is not permitted to communicate inany form with anyone duringtheexamination. Passing or receiving information in any form or peeping into the answer books of others during the examination constitutes misconduct and is strictly prohibited. A stttdent, who assists or abets giving or passing of information, in any form whatsoever, will be considered as committing malpractice and could be expelled from the examination hall by the Invigilators.
4.1.11 Nostudent will beallowed togo to washroom duringexamination in first 45 minutes and last 30 minutes of the examinations. However, in case of any exigencies only, a student may be allowed to go to washroom by the invigilator, but this will be after recording the out-time and in-time by the invigilator.
4.1.12 Any stttdent spending more than 5 minutes in the washroom may be disallowed by the invigilator and the examination may stand cancelled and thestudent asked to leave theexam venue.
4.1.13 Only one person at a time will be allowed to go out of the examination hall to the washrooms. The invigilator will monitor the stttdents and may record the time taken by thestudent in the washroom. Invigilators' observation will beconsidered as full and final and no negotiation will beentertained.
4.1.14 Students must fill the particulars such as name, roll no., etc. on the cover page of the answer booklet as soon as it is distributed, before proceeding to answerany question.
4.1.15 Students must stop writing as soon as the invigilator signals the end of the time allotted for the examination failing which the answer sheet may be rejected and cancelled.

4.1.16 All examinees must keep their Answer Sheets on their writing desk as per the seatingorderassigned to them.
4.1.17 Any violation of the norms of examination will be considered a serious offence and an act of misconduct and will be reported in the prescribed format by the invigilator to the Controller of Examinations for necessary action.
4.1.18 In case of any violation of the code of conduct, appropriate action will be taken as per the extant provisions of the Student Manual of Policies or as deemed fit bythe appropriate authority of this University.
4. I.19 Unless otherwise specified by the instructor, collaboration in any form with others in writing of thehome assignments is treated as malpractice. Inother words, the answers as presented to the instructor should be the independent work of each student. Students are advised that they should not, in their own interest, communicate their written analysis or answers in a take-home assignment tootherstudents.
4.1.20 If a student is not in a position to take an examination for reasons beyond her/his control, s/he should inform, in writing, to the Dean, CoF.'s Office and the faculty concerned beforehand and obtain their clearance, failing which s/he will be awarded an "I" gradein respectof thecourseconcerned.
4.1.21 Any violation of the norms of examination will be considered a serious offence and an act of willful misconduct. In such an event, the student will be liable for forfeiture of the answer book and expulsion from the examination hall at once.
4.1.22 Any violation of examination norms will be brought to the notice of the Controller of Examinations (COE) and the Dean concerned. The COE may takesuitable action or may constin1te a committee comprising theCOE, the Dean of the concerned School and any other Dean to look into the matter and to suggest thequantum of punishment. If the gravity of the o.ffence is so grave as to adversely affect the reputation of the University and/or the fair conduct of theexamination and/or the general discipline in the campus, the student will be liable forexpulsion from the University.
4.2 GUIDELINES FORTHEOPEN BOOK EXAMINATION:
(a) The Dean's office and the Office of the Controller of Examinations should be infonned about conducting an open book examination at the time of submitting thequestion paper tofacilitate necessary arrangements.
(b) It should be clearly mentioned in the question paper that it is an Open Book Examination, and this information must also be circulated among the students.
(c) The materials allowed during an open book examination are textbooks, handwritten notes, printed research papers, and calculators.
(d) The following are strictly prohibited during theexamination unlessothe1wise explicitly permitted by theexamination dept.

• Personal laptops
• Tablets
• Mobile phones
• Electronic gadgets
• Smartwatches
• Health watches
• Anyelectronic device that can beconnected to theinternet
• UseofAI-generated print materials
• Exchangeofmaterials
• Exchangeof remarks inside theexamination hall
• Phonic Eyewear
4.3 GUIDELINES FOR EXAMINATION THAT REQUIRE COMPUTATION EFFORT:
4.3.1 	For examination requiring specialised software or high computational effort, the university's computer lab may be used without interoet connectivity. Under no circumstances are personal laptops allowed for examinations unless otherwise explicitly pennitted by theexmnination dept.
4.3.2 Theusages of Al powered website or applications is strictly prohibited during theexamination.
4.4 EXAMINATION CONDUCT AND PROCEDURES:
4.4.1 Any doubts regarding the examination question paper can be clarified by the faculty within thefirst fifteen minutes of theexamination.
4.4.2 Computer-based multiple-choice question (MCQ) examinations are not permitted for mid-term andend-t.enn/semester examinations.
4.5 LISTOFEXAMI	ATION MALPRACTICEANDPENALTIES
A list of examination malpractice and suggested penalties are being given below mainly for the End TrimccStcr/ScmccStcr examinations. For other examination, the Controller of Examination may decide thequantum of punishment in discussion with thecourse instructoror faculty concerned or thedean of theschooI.

4.5.1 Award of penalty to students involved in malpractice in mid-semester or mid­ term examinations:

The following actions wi.11 be treated as malpractice and breaching examination code of conduct
• Unauthorized changing of seat in examination hall,
• exchanging answer script and/ additional sheet and/ question paper,
• Possession or use of any chits(including blank paper), notes, books, or information related to the examination in any form (hard copy or digital) including on the student's body or clothing or other wear, keeping or leaving such material at the examination venue or other sun-otmding areas (e.g. toilets, windows, stairs etc.),excepl an area designated for safe keeping of students' belongings,
• Possession or use of electronic devices of any form including mobile phone- , other transmitting or receiving devices, or other means of communication in the examination venue aml/or keeping/leavingsuch
devices in thepremises (including toilets), other than in the area designated for keeping such articles.
• can-ying answer script outside the examination hall, non-submission of work for examinations c-onducted in computer lab.
• Copying or attempting to copy the work of other candidates.
• Talking to or communicating in any manner with other candidates during the examination, including through gestures, signals, etc.
• Helping other candidates during examinations, inside or outside the
• cxainination venue.
• Cheating of any form before, during, or after examination.
• Giving or receiving assistance directly or indirectly in any form or attempts to do so.
• Not following the rules of examination.
• Failing to comply with the instructions of the invigilator or examiner regarding appropriate conduct during the examination.
• Intimidation of, or misbehaviour with,or assault or attempt to assault an invigilator or examiner either inside or outside the examination venue.
• Damage or attempts to damage articles or property of the examination hall, or of the institution or of an invigilator/examiner.
• Creating disturbance of any form in the examination venue
Consequences/ Penalty:
• For all UG programs-the mid semester examination stands cancelled and the answer script will not be evaluated. The candidate will be debarred from merit list.
• For all PG programs - the mid semester/ term examination stands cancelled and theanswer script will not be evaluated. The candidate will be debarred from merit list.
• For both UG and PG no remedial midterm/ mid-semester examination will
	be offered to students breaching examination code of conduct.	
26

4.5.2 

EXAMINATION MALPRACTICEPENALTIES a. Talking to another student in the examination hall. (Both in otninc/ online exam.)• Warning by the invigilators and immediate change of seat.
• On second recurrence, the invigilator may pass Report Against remark on the answer script of the student for deduction of at least 25% of the marks.
• Further repeat ofience afier Reporting Against on the answer script of the student, the student will be expelled by the Invigilator and the Invigilator will submit Incident Report.b. Possession	of chits/ notes/ books/ copies or any unauthori:ted	materials relating to the exam or carrying	the answer sheet outside the examination hall.• 	Examination of the particular paper will be cancelled and the student shall be expelled from the examination hall. S/he will awarded an F Grade in the Course and may re-appear to rectify the F Grade in the next avaiIable Temi/Semester
with lhe junior batch.C.	Possessingmobilephones,	smart• Examinationoftheparticularpaperwillbewatches, health watches or any othercancelled and the student shall be expelled fromelectronic device in or on person insidethe examination hall. S/he wiII awarded an F Gradethe examination hall.in the Course and may re-appear to rectify the FGrade in the next available Temi/Semester	with thejunior batch.J.  Drn ing through mobil plwm:·.ormobile"-phone" in	• Examination of the"-p<uticuJar pa -rwill be" c:.am.1d)et!and the" studt'ul
switched onmodedunngcxammauon	shall be expelled from rhc cxammarion hall. He/She will awarded :mF
G1a<lt' iulht'-CowS<.and may lt'...tp ai lo rrttify lht--f' G1a<lt' in th,c:,.11-t'Al
available"TC"1m/.Semc,skr withtht'-ju.niorbatch.e. Impersonation on behalf of another. Examination of'the particular paper will be student,
cancelled and the student shall be expelled
from tl1e examination halI.
• Term/Semester Grades for allcourses will be withheld.
• Examination Disciplinary Committee comprising of the Registrar, Controller of Examination(Convenor) and the concerned Deanof theSchool shall meet and decideon the quantun1 ofthe penally which may include a maximum sentence of expulsion from the University.
• FIR maybe lodged against such students in the local police station.
f. Misbehavior in any fonn towards	Tenn/Semester Grades for all courses will invigilator.
bewithheld.
• Examination of the particular paper will be cancelled and the student shall be expelled from theexamination hall. He or she will be awarded an F grade in the course.
• Examination Disciplinary Committee comprising of tlie Registrar, Controller of Examination (Convenor) andthe concerned Dean oftheSchoolshallmeet and dceideon the quantum of the penalty which may include a maximum sentence of expulsion from the University.g.	Misbehavior	to	any	officer/staff	Examination	Disciplinary	Committee
associated with examination.		comprising of the Registrar , Controller of Examination(Convenor) and the concerned Dean of the School shallmeet and decideon the quantum of the penalty which may include a maximum sentence of expulsion from the University.

4.6 PROCEDURETO DEAL\'VITH CASES OF MALPRACTICES
4.6.1 The miscon<luct/malpractice/ unfair activity ofa student in the examination hall or IT Lab shall be reported in a specified form and submitted to the Controller of examinations by theinvigilatoralong with the answer script ofthe alleged student ina separate covered packet immediately after theexaminationon thesameday.
4.6.2 The incriminating material (ifany) recovered from thecandidate as well as the filled­ up form should besigned bythe invigilatorand by the student or byanyco-invigilator ifthesnidcnt refusestosign.
4.6.3 The report of the invigilator along with the incriminating material shall be placed before theCoE forscrutinyand award ofpenaltyas mentioned inSection8above.
4.6.4 In caseof useor possession ofa mobile phone/ any objectionable electronics devices thesamewiII beseized bytheinvigilatorandwiII besubmitted in theofficeof the COE tobelater returned tothestudent uponsuitableapplication by thestudent.
4.7 EXAMINATIONDISCIPLINARYISSUES
An Examination Disciplinary Committee (EDC) comprising of thefollowing members may be constituted under the chairmanship of the Controller of Examinations, XlM University to decide/ impose penalty on theerring snidcnts for matters mentioned in Section 4 (e), (t),(g) or any other grievous or exceptional exam related malpractice matters deemed fit to be covered under the purview ofthe EDCas decided by theCOE ofthis University.

The EDC shall comprisedof the following members:
I. Controller of Examination (Convener)
2. Registrar,XIMUniversity
3. Dean of the concemed schools.
4. Any special invitee/ concerned faculty/staff/student, ifneeded.
J\ny two will form quorum for the meeting.The decision of the EDCwill becommunicated to the registrar before-award of penalty to any students. However, before imposing any penalty, the explanation Mthestudentc(mcemed shall be taken intoaccount. Repeatof any type of misconduct and number of misconducts shall add to the gravity of the offence. In addition to the above penalties for the offence, the COE or the Registrar may also impose any or allofthe following penalties at his/their sole discretion.
a. Moncta1y fineupto Rs. 5000/- to be paid to the University
b. lnfonningthe parents/ guardiansof the concerned student.
c. Informing to !he higherauthority ofXIM University for further disciplinary action.
Appeal: Ill matters ofs11j]icie11tgrm,ity,a student may appeal within one week ofp1111ish111e11t,to the ViceCha11cellor for review. The decisio11 of the Vice Cha11cellor isji11al and bi11di11g to the st11de11t andhisrepresentatives.

      SECTION-5 STUDENTS' RESIDENCE

5. 1  PROTOCOLS FOR USE OFROO!VIS
(a) Residents shall occupy the rooms only after allotment is made by the Residence ManagcmentTcam.
(b) Room allotted toa person cannot be changed or interchanged withoutexplicit permission from lhe Prefect/RMT. Such residents if found guilty of violating residence rules shall be expelled from the residence without any further enqmry.
(c) No permission is granted to any (student), other than the person (student) to whom the room is allotted to stay. The room is allotted for two years (PG)/lhree/ four/five years (UG) of the academic session and at the end of the academic session, students must handover the rooms in a good condition along with the assets provided during the time of allocation in a prescrihcd final residence clearance form to the residenceauthorities.
(d) No parent or guardian(s) of a student is pemlitted to enter/stay in the room allotted lo lherespective student.
(c) Unauthorized occupation of any room or exchange of rooms shall betreated as serious violation of disciplinary miesofthe residence.
(f) The Residence Management Team reserves the right to change or cancel the room allotments of students in the interest of health, security, discipline, improvement of the educational environment and the general welfare of studentsor as needed.
(g) Do not paste, write or affix any posters, paintings, putting oil stain marks, foot marks and hand marks etc., on the door, walls of the room or in the common places, else fine will be imposed as decided by the management during the time ofroom clearance.
(h) 	Heavy penalty will be imposed on student/group of students indulging writing slogans or obscene drawings on the residence walls, noticeboards and rooms.
(i) The use of equipment such as electric heaters, sound systems, televisions, induction cookers, food warmers, iron box, refrigerator, cooler, table fan etc., are strictly prohibited
(j) inside the residence room because no provision has been made for them. Such appliances, if found will be confiscated and will not be returned, and a fine will be imposed.
(k) Befriending neighboring people and inviting them to the campus as well as to your room isstrictly prohibited.

(I) The Prefect/Asst. Prefect or any authorized person can visit/ enter your room for verification at any point of time.
5.2 ABSENCE FROM THE CAMPUS
(a) During the academic semesters, all the residence students are expected to be on campus and attendingclasses in theclassroom as perschedule.
(b) If you need to stay out of the residence for any reason, even if it is only for one day, you have to first obtain written permission from the RMT of the residence. A prescribed Application Form (Annexure-JT) needs to be filled up by the students before leaving the campus. It is available at the Residence Management Office.
(c) You should carry residence ID (UG) & University ID (PG) while goingout of the residence;
(d) you are required to return to your residence before 9.00 P.M. You will not be allowed toenterthe main gateif you comeafter 10.00 P.M.
(e) The main gateof the UG Residences will remain closed from 10.00 PM to 5.00 AMeveryday.Students arc not allowed to go out of the Residences after I0.00 PMexcept visiting Library with prior permission through mail from the RMT. You should sign theregister kept at Residence Reception & in the library.
(f) Students are discouraged from arranging any picnic or outing/visit to places like sea beaches, waterfalls, reservoirs, ponds etc., where there is a potential dangerto lifeand security ofthe students.
(g) Students are supposed to attend the classes daily. Permission from the respective Dean is mandatory for any absence. However, if any student is found in the room during class hours without attending his/her class, she/he will be penalized. A student is allowed to stay at the room in case of illness/health issues only. If so, the student has to send an email to the concerned Dean as well as the residence authorities abouthis/ her sickness and
absence from lhe class. If any student found being absent in the classes
regularly(as perthe information obtained, from the concerned Dean's Office),
(h) S/hc will be told to vacate the residence immediately.
5.3 ACCIDENTS
(a) XIM University is not liable for any personal accidents while driving or on Leave,outings and tours.
5.4 ALCOHOLIC DRINKS/DRUGS
(a) Any violation coming under NDPS will come under Zero tolerance Policy. Stringent action wiII be taken on resident resulting in suspension/expulsion from the residence and rustication from the University. During the period of suspension/expulsion, S/he will not be allowed to enter the residence premises.

(b) Depending on the case, the management reserves the right to take direct disciplinary action in this regard at any time.
5.5 BREAKAGES
(a) In the event of any breakage, damage and loss of any furniture, fixtures and fittings inside the residences as well as in common places in the campus, the person(s) responsible for such damages will have to bear the cost, failing which the sameshall be recovered from him/her as fine.
(b) In cases where responsibility for such actscannot be defined, a common fine will be imposed on all theresidents/t1oor.
5.6 CLEANLINESS & MAINTENANCE
(a) Residents shall cooperate in maintaining and keeping the common areas and premises clean.
(b) Please avoid Iitteringand help our maintenance staff to keep the campus clean, beautifol and environment friendly.
( c) Leakages, if any, in the water coolers, geysers, basins, bathrooms, etc., should immediately be reported through the UMS.
5.7 COMMITTIEES
(a) There is a Residence Secretaries Committee (representatives from different schools) for smooth functioning of the residence related day to day matters. They are also the members of the Mess Commitlee. They have to fonction with the guidance and instructions of the Residence Management Team. The Residence Secretaries meet the Residence Management Team headed by the Resident Prefect twic.c incvc1y month to take the stock of the residences.
(b) Selections are held once a year to choose members for residence committees through a properinterview process by Residence Prefect & RMT.
5.8 CUL:l'URALACTIVITIES
(a) Useof crackers is strictly prohibited inside the campus except on the Diwali Festival. Ou that day all the crackers should be burst around the penuitted area only. Action will be initiated against those found bursting crackers inside the residence building.
(b) Anominal amount will becollected by the Residence Secretary (R-SEC) core committee for residence related cultural programme and other welfare activities which is mandatory for every residents.
5.9 ENERGYCONSERVATION
Use lights only when needed. Turn off electrical equipment like electrical chargers, laptops when not in use. Use of decorative lights insidethe rooms is strictly prohibited. Heavy penalty could be imposed on students found using them intheirrooms.

5.10 GUESTS/VISITORS
The visiting hoursare:
05.30 P.M. to 08.30 P.M.(on all working days)
10.00A.M. to 08.30 P.M. (onSundays& University Holidays)
5.11 GENERAL DISCIPLINE
(a) No association of students on the basis of religion, region, caste or creed is pennitted.
(b) No secret activities or meetings are permitted inside the residence premises. For holding any meeting in the residence room or anywhere in the residence areas, prior written permission should be obtained from the Residence Management.
(c) Students should refrain from any activity that is likely to infringe on the privacy of others or interfere with their studies or disturb the peace and harmony among theresidents andon thecampus.
(d) Residents shall notget involved inarguments orinterfere with thedutiesof the employees of theresidence team. lfthere is any complaint or suggestion to be made, it shall be made to the RMT/Residence Prefect.
(e) Any student who is found to be indulging in undesirable activities such as physical assault, damage to prope1ty, or misconduct of any fom1, will beliable to thefollowing punishments:
i. S/hewill beexpelled from theresidence.
ii. Desides, thecostofdamage will befully recovered from him/her as fine.
(f) The privilege of appearing for c,m1pus interviews will be denied, when He
/She reaches
(g) thefinal year.
(h) ln the above-mentioned 11npos1tton of punishment, the Residence Administration & GeneralAdministration has thefinal say.
SOI 2  HOLIDAYS
(a) During summer holidays residence will remain closed and no student will be allowed tostay intheresidence.
(b) The residential accommodation is available to you only till the end of the academic Year
S.13LAWANDORDER
(a) Students cannot participate in any anti-national, anti-social or undesirable activity insideoroutside  thecampus.

(b) Keeping oflethal weapons like sticks, rods, guns, chainsetc., in theresidence rooms isstrictly prohibited.
(c) No inmate shall take the law into his/her own hands. If one finds that other students areindulging inany undesirable activity or causing inconvenience or physical injury to him/her or to the other residents, she/he should lodge a complaint in writing to the Residence Management Team.
(d) Tfthcstudents create any law andorderproblems outside thecampus, they will beanswerable tothe local administrationand thepolice personally.
5.14 WOMEN'S RESIDENCE
(a) You are notallowed totake yourguests and visitors toyour room. But you may meet themat thereception/lounge/ lobby.
(b) No girls areallowed toenter into the blocks/ personal rooms ofboys. If found, theviolators will beexpelled fromthe residence without anyinquiry.
5.15 MEDICALFACILITIES
(a) A doctor is available in the campus for consultation from Mon-Saturday in bet.ween 6.30PM to8.30PM.
(b) Two nurses areavailablein thecampus on alldays.
( c) 24 hours an ambulance service is also available in the campus. The services will beprovided only onanemergency situation as pertheambulance policy.
5.16 MESS
(a) The mess is rnn by private contractor who directly deals with the students in terms of menu (both veg& non veg),quality, hygiene etc. tobea resident in PG & UG one has tobea mandatory memberof the student's mess.
(b) Ten months fee(i_ Rs. 4035/- per month towards minimum mess charges for
PGstudents.
(c) Ten months fee(iy Rs. 4035/- per month towards minimum mess charges for UGstudents-it should be paid inthree instalments (in Cash/ On line) directly tothe mess vendoraccount for theacademic year2025-2026.
(d) Thestudents arenot permitted lo take food parcels, mess utensils such as plate, spoon, tumblers, etc.,outside the messarea.
(e) Employing messstaff forpersonalwork is not permitted.
(f) In any case ifa resident is missing mess facilities for his/her personal reasons, S/he can'tdemand, claim and carry forward the messfee.
(g) Astudent may avail full month mess facilities by paying anextra amount.

(h) MealTimings:
• Breakfast(PG):7.30AM-9.30AM
• Lunch(PG):  I2.30PM-2.30PM
• Dinner(PG): 8.30PM-10.15 PM
• Breakfast (UG):7.30 AM-9.30AM
• Lunch(UG): 12.30PM - 2.30PM
• Dinner(UG): 8.00PM-9.30PM
(1)	No meals willbeserved outside of these hours.
5. l7NOISE
(a) No loud music is allowed in the residence at any time. Therefore, no students are allowed to keep any speakers or woofers in their rooms. If the residence authorities find it, they will beconfiscated immediately and a heavy fine may beimposed.
(b) NoDJAllowed in thecampus.
( c) Strictsilenceshall beobserved in the residence from I 1.00PM to 5.30/\M.\
5.18 NOTICES
The Nolice Boards are to be used only by competent persons to give relevant infonuationconcerning their areaofresponsibility.
5.19 PARKING
Since theprogram is residential, yourpresence on campus is required on all days of the terms. Therefore, a resident is not allowed to keep his vehicle inside the campus.
5.20 POST& COURIER
Couriers/Post is cleared and delivered once a day in tbe designated area. Kindly contact the dispatch section in this regard (Basement, Administrative Building, XIM University Campus)
5.21 PERSONALPROPERTY
The University will not be held liable, directly or indirectly, for the loss of your personal propertydue to theft,damage byfireor water, or anyother cause.
5.22 SPORTS
(a) The XIM University has noodlight facilities for games like Lawn Tennis, Basketball and Badminton, a well- equipped Gymnasium and spacious playgrounds for volleyball, football and cricket.

(b) No games will be allowed between l 0.00 PM and 6.00 AM.
S.23ZERO TOLERANCE POLICY
(a) Violation ofNDPS
(b) Accommodating a dayscholarin residence/ lllegal stay in theresidence.
(c) Willful useof falsecontact number andemailidof parents/guardian
(d) Indulging inphysical violence & Groupism.
(e) Missing classes while being in theresidence.
(f) Unauthorized late entry fine imposed is Rs. 2000 in First Instance, Repeated of Sameattracts disciplinary action.
(g) Abuse ofgenderspecific places(washrooms).
(h) Conduct unbecoming of a student within thecampus.
(i) Damaging the University assets.
(j) Aresident whodoes not pay his/her mess dues in thegrace period in spite of a firstand only reminder.


6. RESERVATION OF RIGHTS
XIlVl University reserves the right to change the requirements for admissions or g.raduation content of courses fees charg•ed scholarships awards and reg·•ulations affectin. g students, or make any other suitable amendments/modification, should they be deemed necessary in the interestof thestudents, the University or the profession.




















POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMME
(PG)

SECTION -1



1. ACADEMIC PROGRAM
The University offers the following PG Degree Programs
I. MBA-Business Management
2. Executive MBA-Business Management
3. MBA-Human Resource Management
4. MBA-Rural Management
5. MBA-Urban Management And Governance
6. MBA-Sustainability Management
7. Master of Management Studies (Business Finance)
8. Master of Arts (MA) - Mass Communication
9. MBA - Public Policy and Management
10. Master of Science (M.Sc)- Economics
11. Master of Technology (M.Tech) - Computer Science Engineering (Speciali7.ation in Data Science and Analytics)
12. Master of Science (M.Sc.)-Psychology
13. LLM
2. PROGRAM OVERVIE\\I
2.1 All the PG Programs of XIM University arc full-time residential programs. Regular classes happen inside the campus. However, if a force majcurc event such as typhoon, cyclone, epidemic, pandemic or anyother act of God which cannot be foreseen, theclassesandexaminations may happen inon-line mode.
2.2 The PG Programs are organized into two years-First year and Second year. In the First year, therearc compulsory corecourses that arcoffered. At theend of theFirst year, all students will haveto undergo Summer Internship Program for8-10weeks with an industrial, business or service organization bytaking up a project study. No student will be entitled to receive the degree without completing the Summer Internship Program satisfactorily. During Second year, in addition to compulsory corecourses and Summer Internship Program, a student shall have tochoose a set of elective coursesfor theirstudy.
2.3 A course in the PG Programs may be between one to six credits. One credit is equivalent to 10 teaching/contact hours. In most cases any course will have two scheduled sessions/classes per week. Exceptions are made to accommodate visitingfacultyor otherexigencies.

3. TRIMESTER I SEMESTER SYSTEM
3.1 MBA Programs of the XIM University follow the trimester system and Master's programs follow the semester system. The trimester system comprises of six trimeci;ters in two years i.e., three trimesters in each year.The semester system has four semesters in two years i.e., two in each year.
4. REGISTRATION
4. I Students are required to register in person on thedaynotified for registration in the admission call letter, and thereafter, on the first day of each subsequent Term/Semester as indicated in the Academic Calendar or as notified by the Dean's Officeof theSchool.
4.2 The Dean's Office shalI notify alI newstudents to submit their original certificates for verification. If the original certificates are not available on the date for submission of original certificates, provisional certificates will have to beshown. Nocolor photocopies shall beaccepted under any circumstances.
4.3 Those students who are unable to submit their final year graduation mark sheets and their qualifying degree from their respective universities by the day of the verification, are required to submit them positively by the Registration Day of Term/Semester II. Failing this, a student's registration may be cancelled. Exceptions will be granted only under extenuating circumsUmces, with specific approval fromtheDean of theRespective School.
4. 4 In exceptionalcircumstances, the last date forsubmission of c.ertificates in support of thequalifying degree can beextended by the Dean for an appropriate period, in consultation with the Registrar.
4.5 Under all circumstances, the qualifying graduation examination of minimum 3- year duration should have been completed without any pending backlogs before the dateof admission and registration at the University.
4.6 Aftcr joining theProgram, those whofaiI to register for each Term/Semesteron the specified date notified in the Academic Calendar, or by subsequent notice to the students, will be deemed to have left the University unless prior written permissio11 for delayed registration is obtained from the Dean with proper prior application anddocumentary support.
4.7 If the Dean permits, to register after thedate notified for the purpose, the student will haveto paya late registration feeof INR 500/-(Rupees five hundred) perday after theduedate, subject toa maximum allowance of IOdays for late registration. Thelate registration feeis payable irrespective ()f the reason orcircumstancesfor thedelay inseeki11g registratio11.
4.8 Asnident is not permitted to pursue anyothercourse under anyother University or Institute, while s/he is registered as a student in the MBNPG Program of XIM University.
4.9 The request forchange of sections in class is not accepted.

S.	WITHDRA\\'ALFROMADMJSSION
After the payment of the first-year fees (in part or foll), if a student wants to withdraw his/her acceptance of the admission offer, with the letter of withdrawal reaching the admissions office, on or before the date as stipulated by the Admissions Office, s/he will be entitled to a refund of the fees paid less a processing fee of INR 3000/-. Ifs/he decides to leave the program, any day after completing the registration, appropriate deductions will be made before refund as per the Admission offer letter. The students withdrawing after registration will have tocontact the respective Dean-Academics for approval, clearance andexitinterview.
6. FEES AND REFUND
6.1.1 The fees of the XIM University arc usually announced in the Admission Bulletin or Admissions Call letters. However, the fee strncntre is liable for changes as and when necessary, through appropriate notification. Fees for each academic year must be paid by the due date specified in the Academic Calendar. A late payment fee of INR 500/- per day is charged in case of a payment made after the duedate subject toa total of maxi.mum INR 5,000/-.All feesare to bepaid by bankdraftor online transfer (RTGS/NEFT) only in favor of"XIM University" [South Indian Bank, XIM University Branch] unless othe1wise notified. Cheques/Cash are not accepted for thepayment.
6.1.2 Astudent doing extra credit-elective(s), beyond 108 credits, except MBA(RM) and MBA (UMG) will be requiJ:ed to pay a fee of INR 5000/- per three credits course. A late payment fine will bechargeable in caseof payment made after the due date.The applicable fee shall bedeposited in the account "XIM University" [South Indian Bank, XIM University Branch) through bank challans only unless otherwise notified.
6.1.3 Caution deposit will be released onlyafter clearance of all dues, viz. tuition fees, extra credit course fees if any, residence fees, mess dues, library dues, any other dues and fines, ifany,and receipt of completed No Dues Certificate (NDC)as per the procedure prescribed above.
6.1.4 Irrespective of the reasons for withdrawal of the student from the University's rolls before completion of the program, voluntary or otherwise, no other fees deposited with the University except the caution deposit are refondable. The fees/charges stipulated in this para- may be revised by the University without notice and consultation with anyone.
7. LATE FEE PAYMENT
7 .1 Astudent will not be allowed to register for the tenn/semester ifs/he hasnotpaid the fees for the academic year and/or theup-to-date messdues.
7.2 Nocertificate of any kind or Degree will be issued to a student who has not cleared his/her dues. The ANDC form can be obtained from the Accounts Office and the clearance is to be obtained in written endorsement thereupon, from Library, Mess/ Canteen, Resident Prefect, Reception, Students' Cooperative and Accounts. The duly completed NDC is to be submitted to the COE/ Dean's Office of respective

program, before the student leaves the Campus after the completion of the sixth term/ fourth semester examinations. Clearance certificate form of the student for fees/dues can beobtained from Accounts Office.
8. LOANS
Study loans are available from banks and otheragencies. Information can beobtained from XIM University Admissions orAccounts Office.
9. STUDENT COl\lfMTTTEES
9.1 The Students Executive Council (SEC) in the University acts an apex students' body. It oversees the fonctioning of the various committees of students and acts as a bridge between the students and the administrative authorities of the University. The SEC is headed by the General Secreta,y and consists of the Treasurer, Cultural Secretary, Joint Secretary, Coordinators of the core, functional and interest committees, resident secretaries, the class representatives, and the cultural representatives. The SEC is the forum for discussion with the Vice Chancellor, Registrar/Deputy Registrar, ADSA/Coordinator Student Affairs (CSA- PG), Dean (Academics) of respective PG Programs on issues affecting the student body in general. The three - Joint Secretary, Deputy Registrar, ADSA pertain to Xavier Institute of Management, XIM University, Bhubaneswar. The primary function of the SEC is to facilitate the smooth functioning of all the student activities of the University.

9.2 There are three Commitlees i.e., CORE, FUNCTIONAL and INTEREST Committee which help the SEC to organize and smooth conducting of various activities of students of the University.
9.3 All the members of the Student Executive Council and members of other committees are elected bystudents in a democratic process.
10. CO-CURRICULAR  AND EXTRA-CURRICULARACTMTIES
As a policy, the University encourages students to develop citizenship qualities in addition to academic accomplishments. Enough scope exists in the Campus for extra curricular pursuits such as sports, social service, book club, music, seminars, debates, quizzes andcontests, etc. through areaspecific voluntary associations such as Seminar Club, Maxim, X-fin, X-ops, X-sys, X-knoz, Xpressions, Xamboree, SPJC-MACAY, X-ynergy, Synchronize (tech festival), Robogenx Club Etc.

      SECTION-2 CURRICULAR POLICIES

The Academic Year consists of three terms/two semesters for all PG programs, the details of which are reflected in the XIM University PG Academic Calendar. In the PG courses, each term /semester of MBA program is approximately of three months duration and each semester of other PGcourses is approximately of six monthsduration. The MBAprogram is spread over six terms/semester and other PG courses are spread over four semesters. The academic year conunences with an Orientation Program for the newly admitted students. Attendance in all sessions during the orientation program iscompulsory forall theFirst-year students, failing which disciplinary action may be imposed by the respective Deans of the Schools. Regular classes begin immediately after the orientation program. The Academic Calendar specifies the Terms/Semesters, teaching schedule, examinations, events, etc. Students of the MBA/PG Program must complete all the requirements of the curriculum, including courses duly completed, co-curricular activities, Immersion Courses, Summer Internship Programs, andotherstipulated components to receive thedegree.
2.1 CURRICULUM REQUIREMENT
As mentioned in 2.1 of section 2 (program overview), all the PG Program of the XIM University is a two-year full-time residential program and the regular classes happen inside thecampus.
Acourseof PGprogram can bebetween one to six credits. Onecredit is equivalent to JO teaching/contact hours plus another 20 hours of academic work to be utilized by the studentoutside the classroom in reading, research, assignments and/oractivities related to thecourse, as specified by the faculty. In most cases, any course will have two (2) scheduled sessions per week. Exceptions arc made to accommodate visiting faculty or other exigencies. A course will hedeemed to be "incomplete" if either the student has less than 75% attendance of the total course or has failed to submit/ take any of the evaluation components of that course, including theopportunity foramake-up exam for that component or a supplementary exam of that course. Completion of two other non­ credited components, i.e., the Summer Internship Program and two Immersion Courses is a mandatory requirement forgraduation and obtaining thedegree.
Each credit is IO hours. Out of the 48 credits, 34 credits (340 hours) are through live classroom delivery during weekends (Saturday and Sunday and in exceptional cases during other days of the week) and 14 credits (140 hours) are through oflline credits involving lectures, faculty moderated discussion fonunsand Iive projects

SI.
No.ProgramMinimum CreditRe.quirementIMBA (Business Management)1052Executive MBA (Business Management)963MBA (Human Resource Management)1054MBA (Rural Management)110.55MBA (Urban Management and Governance)1136MBA (Sustainability Management)1067Master of Management Studies (Business finance)1068MA (Mass Communication)10I9MBA (Public Policy and Management)10310M.Sc. (Economics)9611MTech - Computer Science Engineering (Speciali7.ation in Data Science and Analvtics)9012M.Sc.. (J>svcho)oi,v)10613LLM30
2.2 COURSE WORKLOAD
The PG Program is designed to prepare the students for the rigors of professional life, occupying about 60-70 working hours per week. Credit distributions across terms/semesters arc accordingly decided, taking into account the co-curricular and extra-curricular activities planned for the term/semester. Normally, the workload of a student should notexceed eight coursesof three credits in any tenn or as decided by the Academic Committee before thecommencement of theacademic year. On an average, a student is expected lo devote two hours of self-study for every contact class in the University.
A student may be permitted by the respective Deans of the School to register for electives beyond the minimum required, Grade{s) secured in an extra credit course will be included in computing QPl and CQPI and once opted for the course, it cannot be dropped later. Students taking extracourse(s) beyond the minimum credits are required topay INR 5000/-per 3 creditcourses.
2.3 SCHEDULING OF CLASSES
It may so happen that the number of electives offered/opted in a particular term / semester may be much more than the number of sessions that can be scheduled per week. This may require the University to take into account theconvenience of faculty and the interests of students while scheduling the sessions. A few electives may clash with one another because of a concurrent schedule, i.e., in the same slot. Such an eventuality is likely tocause problems, particularly, where a student opts forboth/all the electives so scheduled in the same slot. Should a situation of this kind arise, students affected by such slotting will be directed to opt for anyone/other elective(s), for a particular classslot.
2.4 CHOICE OF ELECTIVES
2.4.1 The students completing 2 years PG program at XTM University will be required	to complete	minimum	required	electives	in second	year

terms/semesters respectively. The students are required to give their choice of list of electives for second year terms/semesters towards theend of thefirst year before leaving the University in April for the Sununer Internship Program. Choiceof electives may beexercised in view of their academic interests subject toconcurrence of thefaculty concerned.
2.4.2 The criteria for admission of students to the different elective courses are determined by the instructors concerned in consultation with the Dean of the School/sand thearea coordinator/s.
2.4.3 For an elective to run, the minimum numberof students subscribing thatelective should beat least 12. However, the Vice Chancellor may allow an elective to run with lesser number of students, if deemed fit. Electives will beoffered in groups for each of the second-year students in their respective tenn/semester. Students must complete the course registration by going through thecourse outlines and otherrelated infomiation available in the University's academic bulletin/ web. If necessa1y, students are advised to discuss the details about the electives with respective faculty, to help finalize their choice. No change would be permitted afterthe registration for electives arccomplctcd.
2.4.4 For an elective course to be offered, there should be a minimum registration failing which, the elective will be dropped. In the event of an elective being dropped, the students will be given the option in advance to register for another elective.
2.5 \.VAIVER OF CORE COURSES
A student may be granted a waiver in respect of a Core course, provided the faculty teaching the course and the Dean are satisfied that s/he has adequate knowledge of the course. In such an event., a student.stands exempted from attending the classes in that course. However, in some of the Programs, there is no provision for waiver of core courses.
Tobegranted a Corecourse waiver, a student must:
(a) Request the Dean in writing at the beginning of the Term / Semester in which the course is offered, with anendorsement by the course Faculty.
(b) Take a written qualifying test set by the faculty teaching the course, designed to ascertain the knowledge of the topics covered in that course, and/or submit written assignment(s) as prescribed bythecourse faculty.
(c) The grade for thecourse will be determined on the basis of the perfonnance of the studentin thequalifying testand/or written assignments.
2.6 INDEPENDENT RESEARCH PROJECT (IRP)
The Independent Research Project (IRP), as applicable to certain programmes (Business Management, - Human Resource Management, Rural Management and Communications) is intended to enable the student to study through research, real situations, aspects and issues in an organizational context, and thus to deepen their understanding on t.hat specific topic/ issue beyond thecourse work. It is expected that

the research will further the understanding of that topic and perhaps lead to a publishable paper. IRP is meant to augment the existing elective courses and provide the student an opportunity to learn beyond course work. The sn1dent is given the opportunity to apply management knowledge over a longer time span in a rigorous manner. It is expected that the findings of the report are useful for organizations and perhaps lead to a publishable paper. The lRP will be offered in tbe second year and required to complete before the last term/semester. In exceptional cases, the lRP can span over two tenns. No IRPwill beoffered in the last tenn/semester.To be eligible for an IRP, the student has to have a minimum CQPI of 6.5 at the end of the first year. A student can opt for only one IRPin the academic year.The student will have tochoose a main guideand no IRP will be allowed without guidance from faculty members. Those interested indoing IRPcan write a research proposal on the topicof interest anddiscuss the same with the potential guidc(s). The finalized IRP proposal along with signatures of the guide on the title page may be submitted to the Dean's Office before the deadline given for the term. An IRP will be deemed complete atter submission of the evaluated reportduly signed by the Guide and the student al Dean's Offic.e. The grade for an lRP will be awarded based on the perfonnance of the student on variousevaluation criteria. In similar lines school specific research-oriented course module have been developed like,Capstone project, dissertation etc. Further detailsof these modules are to be shared to the students via respective Dean office with the students. [Pleasesee Section 2.8 for
otherProgram specific academic modulesl-
2.7 SUMl\'IER INTERNSHIP PROCRAl\'1 (SIP)
(a) At the end of the first year, during the summer, a student is required to undergo 'Summer Internship Program' (SIP) in an organisation for 8 to IO weeks. The objective of theSIP is tohelp thestudent torelate theclassroom learning to the actual fonctioning of organizations in the real world and learn the practicality of reality. During this time, the student must work on a specific project given to her/bi.Ju by the host organisation. The objective of the SIP is to expose the student to the practical aspects of classroom learning and enable him/her to studyspecific challenges in the organisation.
(b) This unique exposure to the real world (like with government agencies, business organisation, development organisation, consultancies, donor agencies etc.) allows students anopportunity to relatethe classroom learning. SIP investigates some
(c) Significant aspects of a real-world problem. It gives students an opportunity lo observe an organization in operation and to sharpen their knowledge and skills by putting them to use. Besides providing an opportunity to enliance their understanding of potential challenges, summer projects also givestudents practical experience that will help them to plan their careers. SIP for students is arranged through CAS. The sn1dent would have an executive guide/mentor in the host organisation taking him/her for the SIP.
I. SIP PROJECT REPORT SUBlVIISSION
(a) On completion of the SIP, a student is required to submit the report to the executive guide/mentor for evaluation and to the Dean's Office of the respective PG Programs. For the Dean's Office however, the report should be submitted in both hard and soil

copies. The contents of the report should include project title, project o jectives, defining the problem, methodology used, data analysis, findings, conclusions and recommendations.
(b) In case the internship program work is considered confidential by theorganisation, all steps should be taken to maintain confidentiality. In such cases, the student will beexempted from submitting the complete report. However, an appropriate lett.er or Non-Disclosure Agreement (NOA) from the concerned organisation must be submitted to the Dean's Office within the first 15 days of joining the SIP. At the end of the SIPtheappropriate foll report orthesummary reportof the internship program must be submitted within 15 days after the commencement of the 4th term / 3rd semester.
(c) The summaiy report should also contain the project title, project objectives, methodology followed, the keyfindingsandrecommendations,and reportshould be of a minimum of I0-12 typed pages (in 1.5 line spacing), excluding thecover page. The cover page must have the infom1ation about theorganisation, topic of the SIP, purposeofthe SIP, name of the student with roll number, the name ofthe School and University where thestudent is presently studying.
(d) The final report which are not under Non-DisclosureAgreement (NOA)should beof a minimum of50-60 typed pages, in 1.5 linespacing, excluding the cover page. The coverpageshould have thesame information as mentioned above.
(c) No smdcnts will be entitled to receive the Degree without completing the SIP satisfactorily.A student, who docs notcomplete the SIPsatisfactorily, and who docs not comply with the requirements, will have to do another SIP, before becoming eligible to receive the Degree.
TI.  SIPSTUDENTFEEDBACK
Every student must ensure that their Corporate Guide/SIP Guide/SIP mentor of the company in which S/he is interning fill-upand submits theSIP Feedback Form to the Dean's Office. Students whose SIP feedback would not be received from their company shall beconsidered as SIP incomplete. The students may get in touch with the Career Advisory Services (CAS) office to expedite the feedback process. Students, who receive adverse comments from their hostorganization anddoany act which brings disrepute to the University, will be liable fordisciplinary action, which may result in expulsion from the University.
2.8 PROGRAMl\'fE SPECIFIC ACADEMIC l\10DULE
2.8.1 Conferring to the requirement of specificity and unique requirements of each courses the XIM University provides scope of best oflearning for the students through programme specific academic module. Brief about these details is shared below and will be updated from time to time. Details of same will be shared to thestudents bytherespective school's Dean's Office.
2.8.2 All students ofMBA-HRM participate in a 4-day Outbound Learning program that is organized by the Tata Steel Adventure Foundation, Jamshedpur. This is held towards the end of the first year of the program. Tn this exciting program

students go through a series of outbound experiences that engage them both mentally and physically. It enables students to hone their leadership and team working skills while they work inan unfamiliar environment.
2.8.3 For the MBA-Rural Management programme students must go through the Rural Living and Leaming Experience (RLLE) that is scheduled in the second half of Term II, for a total of 45 days/ nights.Students are required to spend the days/ nightsspecified for RLLE in theAcademic Calendar in thevillage where theyare placed, as perthedetails provided in theRLLE Guidelines.
2.8.4 MA Mass Communication program offered by the School of Communication comprises theory, studio and software-related courses along with the Summer Internship Program at theend of the first year. In thesecond year, Dissertation, Final Internship, Capstone Project along with domain-specific specialization coursesshould becompleted to beeligible for theaward of thedegree of MA in MassCommunication.
2.8.5 For the MBA-Sustainability Management programme students must go through theSustainability Discovery Programme (SDP) that is scheduled in the second half of Term II, for a total of 30 days/ nights. Students are required to spend thedays/ nights specified forSDP in the Academic Calendar in the field organization where theyarcplaced,as pcrthcSDPManual.
2.8.6 All students of the MBA-Urban Management and Governance Programme must unde1iake the UMMI (Urban Management and Muncipal Immersion) in thesecond halfofTerm II for a minimum period of four weeks,or asspecified in their Academic Calendar. Students arc required to spend the foll UMMI period in the in the Municipal body to which they arc attached and complete all requirements as per the UMMI Handbook. All smdents in this Program must also complete the Capstone Project in Terms V and VI as per the MBA-UMG Capstone Guidelines.
2.8.7 All MHA-Public Policy and Management Programme students must undertake the Local Government Immersion Program (LG IP) in thesecond halfofTcrm 11 fora minimum period of three weeks,as perthe LGIPguidelines. All students in this program must also complete the summer internship at theend of Term 111 and the capstone project in Term VI lo be eligible for the award of the MBA degree inpublic policy and management.
2.8.8 Immersion courses are compact modules offered to students to provide exposure to specialized and emerging topics not covered in the regular course curriculum. Each Immersion Course is spread overa maximum of six sessions of 90 minutes each and are typically taught by Guest or Visiting Faculty with special competence in that topic. These courses are offered during the2nd year of the PG program. Each student must takeat least two Inunersion Courses and attend all sessions of it to qualify for award of the degree and also folfill the course requirement. The topics on which courses will beoffered and the name of the Guest/Visiting Faculty are finalized bythe respective Deans oftheschool in consultation with Area.

2.8.9 Coordinators and student representatives. Attendance is mandatory in Immersion courses.
2.8.10 M.Sc. (Economics): The programme offers specializations that include Financial Economics and Quantitative Economics, among others. To cater to the needs of the hour,courseson data analyticsand timeseries econometrics are taught. Students learn theapplications in softwares such as Python, R, Stata and Eviews.They get an opportunity to go for a summer intemshlp that provides an exposure to hands-on application of theconcepts taught in class. Students have tocomplete 16 courses_,outof which ninearecompulsory.
2.9 CO-CURRICULAR COMPONENT
2.9.1 As mentioned in I.15, enough scope exists in the Campus for co-curricular pursuits such as sports, social service, book club, music, seminars, debates, quizzes, contests, etc. through area specific voluntary associations. Practitioners from all walks of life are invited to address and interact with the students during the Leadership talks. These interactions are organized to give students a glimpse of actual organizational practice from across different segments of society. It is mandatory for all students to attend the Leadership talks.
2.9.2 Immersion courses are compact modules offered to students to provide exposure to specialized and emerging topics not covered in the regular course curriculum. Each Immersion Course is spread overa maximum of six sessions of 90 minutes each and are typically taught by Guest or Visiting Faculty with special competence in that topic.Thesecourses are offered during the2nd year of PG program. Each student must take at least f:\vo Immersion Courses and attend all sessions of it to qualify for award of the degree and also fulfill the course requirement. The topics on which courses will beoffered and the name of theGuest/Visiting Facultyare finalized bytherespective Deansof theschool in consultation with Area Coordinators andstudent representatives. Attendance is mandatory in Immersion courses.
2.9.3 Business Conclave is an initiative to enhance engagement with the industry to build perspective ahout current topics in the management arena. It includes panel discussions on topics identified by the various interest committees spanning different functional domains. It is mandatory for all the students to attend thisevent.
2.10 STUDENTEXCHANGEPROGRAM
2.10.1 The University has tie-ups with several international business schools in Europe,Africa andAmerica.The detailsare provided on the University website. Thestudents can also interact with the Students International Relations Centre (IRC) members or seek information. The University reserves the right to allow or disallow a student to undertake an exchange program without providing any explanation of the same. The student cannot claim an exchange program as a matter of right. Student exchange programs are allowed under the following conditions:

2.10.2 It is for only one academic term. The student must havea valid Indian Passpo11 at the time of application to the foreign University. The student does not miss anycorecourses for the academic termsatXIM University.Students are willing to bear all expenses towards the exchange program. Students must meet the credit requirements as per XIM University norms, (I credit is equivalent to 10 hoursof teaching) and not as per the norms of the partner international business school. Students must submit a list of courses undertaken along with the credits awarded for each with the Dean's Officeand thelRC Ofi'ice aftercompletion of the exchange program. The Grades awarded to the student in the partner institute would be recalculated as per XIM University grading pattern and awarded the recalculated grade.
2.10.3 The procedure for undertaking an international exchange program is as follows:
The student mustapplyin hard copy to the International Relations Center(I RC) of the University stating interest and name of the business school where S/he intends to undertake theexchange program. Thisapplication must besubmitted by 28'" February of the year in which the student desires to undertake the exchange program.The student needs to attach copies of all his/her marksheets and pass certificates with the application. The IRC would then forward the applications to the coordinator for screening and according to permission. The listof students permitted by the coordinator would be forwarded to the Deans of the school for information and formal acceptance. The permitted students would be intimated by 3 l"March. Thestudents would then proceed for availing scholarships and/or student loans or for securing financial resources in undertaking the exchange program.
2.10.4 Documentation required in facilitating the student would be supported by the University. The JRC would unde11akc the process of availing formal acceptance/invitation letters for the studentsfrom the respective foreign partner Universities. The partner Universities may or may not accept/invite a student without giving any specific explanation. The student must abide by the same. The student cannot withdraw from the exchange program once his/her acceptance/invitation letter is received from the foreign partner University.
2.11 SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT
As pai1 of rich legacy to serve the society, the XIM University has unique social engagement initiative for the PG students. This outreach unde11aking mandate student engagement with community and villagers outside the University campus. Student bodyare given all support to plan, design and engage with community in activities like civic support events, cultural exchange, learning life lessons from community leaders etc.

       SECTION-3 STUDENTS' ATTENDANCE

3.1 ATTENDANCEREQUlREMENT
The University attaches great importance to punctual and regular attendance of all
classsessions. Astudent in her/his own interest must attendall classes without fail.
Theguidelines mentioned below will befollowed in all courses.
3.1.1 Class participation, comprising both attendance and involvement in class discussions, is an important aspect of the pedagogy of the Program. The attendance policy is accordingly designed, and it is in the interest of thestudents to attend all classes and come prepared as directed by the faculty. Once a session starts a student shall not leave the classroom without the permission of thefaculty concerned.
3.1.2 The attendance is marked in each class through the UNfS bythecourse faculty, and the record is forwarded in the specified format to the Dean's Office at the end of every session. The final attendance tabulation is done by the Dean's Office one week before the End-term examinations, and on completion of the Course.
3.1.3 Absence from anysessions without priorpermission for /eavejrom the Dean is a serious breach of discipline, and appropriate disciplinary action may be taken against thedefaultingstudent bytheDean.
3.1.4 Exemption from attending classes is not pennissible for reasons other than personal physical disability, grave personal tragedy and/or University assigned official work.
3.1.5 /\ student is also required to attend all Leadership Talks, Guest Speakers, Symposium, Kshitij, Conferences, and allother activities oft heschool as a part of the PG program of this university. At the endof !"Year, a student must have at least 90% attendance in all such out-of-classroomactivities as assigned and notified by the Dean's Office. Attendance on this ground falling short may attract a penalty as deemed appropriate by the Dean, for grossand willful violation of thisattendance rule.
3.1. 6Students should take responsibility to check the records of online att.endance regularly in the University Management System toensurethat theyare meeting the attendance criteria. Failure to meet the attendance requirements may result in thestudent not being eligible to appear for theend-term examination and/or theproportionate gradecutas decided bytheDean.
3.2 ELIGIBILITY FOR END-TERM/SEMESTER EXAMINATIONS
3.2.1 Astudent will be allowed to appear for theend-term examination wheres/he has a minimum of75% auendance in the course. The students and the parents will sign andsubmit an undertaking to the Dean's Officeduring theregistration

so

of the beginning of every academic year. Absence on medical/family/ official proposes in more than 25% of classes in a course will disqualify the student from appearing in the End Term examination of that course. For assessing the eligibility of a student in case of decimal number, the attendance will be converted to thenearest integer.
3.2.2 Absence in more than 25 % of classes in any 3 or more courses during a term would require the student to discontinue and rejoin on the commencement of thesame term in thenext academic year.
3.3 REASONS FOR \VHICH LEAVE MAY BE GRANTED
3.3.1 As mentioned in 3.l.4 above, a student may be granted leave of absence. Such leave of absence will begranted as deemed fit by the Dean, on proper and prior application bythestudent, before goingon leave,along with appropriate initial/ preliminary documentary evidence, for good and sufficient reasons. If the student is not medically fit to write an application, s/he may take the help of parents or guardians to send the application with medical prescription, OST medicine bills and copies of medical tests, if any, by email to the Dean and the Dean's Officewithout fail.
3.3.2 Theapplication should beaddressed to the Dean by email with attachments and submitted in the Office of the Dean, along with relevant documents before availing the leave.For absence on health grounds, thestudent mustattach:
(a) Doctor's prescription with registration number.
(b) GST computerized medicine bill and GST computerized test bills Bills of medical tests, ifanydone.
(c) And a Medical Fitness Certificate from thedoctor forresuming classes.
(d) All subsequent documents post-leave application date must be submitted within two day of resuming classes, failing which the leave will stand cancelled from the date of application. Applications on non-medical groundshould also besubmitted and permission taken from the Dean prior to goingon leavewithout faiI.
3.3.3 Faculty members arc not responsible for any student losing any segment of evaluation because of leave availed by him/her, even if it is with prior permission. Make-up of class tests, quizzes or assignments is left entirely to the discretion of thefaculty concerned and its due fulfilment is solely the smdcnt's responsibility.
3.2. lto 3.3.3 will not accepted after thisgrace period of one weekofresumingclasses.

      SECTION-4 EVALUATION SYSTEM

4.1 EVALUATION SYSTEM
The faculty teaching a course will specify the evaluation components and weightages that will apply to their course through thecourse outline, following thepattern detailed hereafter.
There will bea common syllabus for a particular course across all sections of theclass. However, teaching pedagogy, teaching materials and delive1y could differ depending onthefaculty teaching thecourse.
Evaluation Components:
The number of evaluation components in courses carrying different credits will be as follows-
Table - I
Course Creditj\1inimum 110. of wmpone11/sI21.52233-64Weightage for different Components for MBA Programs:
The recommended weightage for different components of evaluation in courses requiring a minimum of three components (i.e., courses with 2 or more credits) will be as follows. However, if required in specific courses, a different weigbtage may be assigned as per the approved courseoutline bytheDean.
Table-2
ComponentRange qf weightage %C]ass Participation5-10Quiz and/or Assignment15-20Individual Project10-15Group Project10-15\.iidterm  Examination20-30End tenn Examination40
Weightage for different Components for other PG Programs For courses with Labs:
Table - 3

Co111pone11tsSuggested weightage %Class participation/Quiz5 - 10Lab/Programming assignments20-40Individual Project15 - 25Group Project10 -20Mid-Semester Examination20 -30End-Semester Examination30-40For Studio Courses (UMG)
Tablc-4
C()mpone11tsSuggested weigl11age %Class participation15-20Site/ Fieldwork/
Programming15-20Mid-Term/ Mid-
Semester Crit or Jury20-30End-Tenn Report/
Portfolio and Jury30-40For Workshop/ Colloquium/ Seminar Courses (UMG and RM Courses):
Table-5

Compo11e11tsSuggested weigh/age %Class participation15-25Group Assignment30-45Individual30-45Thefaculty concerned shall provide the details of theevaluation pattern for his/her course in the Course Outline. For courses with less than 2 credits, no component should carry more than 60% wcightagc.
Class Participation component shall not be for attendance in the class. It should be awarded for making meaningful contribution in the classroom interaction during the entire duration of thecourse.

The end-term examination is mandatory for all courses except for Program components which are primarily fieldwork-based or in the Seminar format. Please refer to theSyllabus for details in this respectof the course.
The decision of the Dean regarding grades or any segment of evaluation will be final. A student who needs clarification of her/his grades may discuss with the Dean's Office within a week ofpublishing thegrades.
Faculty will give feedback to students periodically on their performance through written comments on answer sheets or through individual meetings at the school premises.
Deadlines and Penalties: Students are required to strictly adheretothedeadlines prescribed for the submission of all written assignments, projects, and reports. Latesubmission is liable to be visited with reduction ingradeas indicated hereunder:
Tahle-6

Dr:layReductionExampleI week or lessI grade pointFrom B+ to B2 weeks or less2 grade pointsFrom B+lo C+3 weeks or less3 grade pointsFrom B+ toCIncomplete Grade: If a written assignment is overdue for more than 3 weeks, the faculty may refose to accept the assignment and award "zero" for that segment of evaluation. However, if the grades are submitted to the Dean's Office with an 'l' (Incomplete) symbol in the assignment, the incomplete component shall be treated as zero marks, on expiry of two weeks from the date of submission of grades to the Dean's Office or from the last date for submission of grades for the term, whichever is later.
4.1 GRADING PATTERNS AND NORMS
The University follows a relative grading system. The students are evaluated on a quality point from Oto JO as well as classified into lel!er grade from F to 0. The equivalence of quality pointand lettergradeisas follows:
Table-1

(}rade()A+AB+BC+CD+DF
Quality Point9.50
-JO8.75
- 9.49
8.00-
8.746.75-
7.995.50-
6.744.25-
5.493.00-
4.241.75-
2.990.50-
1.740.-
0.49
The evaluation symbol "I", is used for incomplete components / assigm11ent, if any. The incomplete component other than the end term, which is mandatory, shall be awarded zero marks, aftercompletion of thedeadline, and the final gradewill be calculated accordingly.

Useof1,rrades including 'F' grade is for academic performance only.'F' grade can also beused for a proven malpractice in assignment/examination. Grade reduction is permissible as per the Manual for established misconduct for any course as reported by the faculty concerned, COE Office or the Dean.
Grade reduction to anyextent is permissible for established misconduct as per this Manual.
Grading Norm: The University has the following Grading Norms:
Table-2

%of :,;wdents in a l{rade bracketFDami
D+Cand
C+Ba11d
B+A and
A+0Minimum00203000Maxirnum10105070105
The above norms are mandatory both for core and elective courses. Further, care should be taken to ensurethat a lowerpercentage of students get a higher grade in a particular bracket. For instance, in the Aand A+category, thepercentage of students getting A+ should be less than thepercentage of students getting A.
Quality Point Index
The index of a student's term perfom11mce is the Quality Point Index or QPI. It is the weighted average of the total quality pointssecured by a student ina tem1, and relates to the maximum quality base of ten. The index of the student's pedonnance in all the terms completed is the Cumulative Quality Point Index or CQPI. It is the weighted average of the quality points of all thecoursesand termscompleted.
4.3 POLICY ON PLAGIARISM
4.3.1 Definition: Plagiarism is thepassing offof the thoughts or works of another as one's own. Plagiarism involves giving the impression that the student has lhought, written or produced something that has, in fact, been borrowed from another. This can be done in two ways, either by copying exactly what the writer has said or by summarizing or paraphrasing the ideas as your own. Copying the words or ideas of another in a piece of written work without acknowledgement of the original source, amounts to an attempt to claim them as one's own.\.Vhcre plagiarism is detected ina pieceofsubmittc<l work it may beconsidered as academic misconduct. However, appropriate quotations and due acknowledgements of original sources that have been used as references may enhance a student's written work.
4.3.2 Responsibility: Tt is theresponsibility of thestudents toensurethat their work is completely free of plagiarism as defined in 4.3.1 above. Each faculty member shall develop guidelines for the presentation of assignments, reports and theses, incorporating information on the matter of plagiarism for the courses he is teaching in addition to the general guidelines provided in the Manual of Policies forStudenls. These are lo becommunicated to thestudenls at thebeginning of each course, preferably, in theCourse Outline.

4.3.3 Allegations of Plagiarism: Plagiarism may result from poor technique or more serious causes such as copying the work of another person, submitting the work of another person, or closely paraphrasing a piece of work without due acknowledgment. The circumstances relating to an allegation of plagiarism shall beassessed todetermine which of thefollowingshould apply:
(a) Minor matters of plagiarism may bedealt with bythefaculty member;
(b) More serious matters including multiple allegations may be referred to the Sn1dcnt  Disciplinary Committee at the Dean's discretion.
4.3.4 Penalty: Each caseshall be treated on its merits.The firstminor infringements may be corrected by counseling or by the imposition of a penalty, as appropriate. Depending on the gravity of the matter, the penalty imposed may include a warning, resubmission, loss of marks, failure ona particulartaskor in a subject, or a charge of misconduct to be dealt with by the Smdent Disciplinary Committee.
4.3.5 Where a penalty is imposed, a file note of the matter shall be placed on the smdcnt's centralfileand a copy of thefile note provided to the student. Before imposing a penalty for plagiarism, the sn1dcnt's file should he checked to detennine whether the offence is a first or a subsequent one. For a subsequent offence, thepenalty shall bemoresevere.
4.3.6 Appeal: /11 matters of .mfficie11t gravitJ a student may appeal withi11 011e week of pu11ishme11t, to the Vice Chancellor for review. The decision of the Vice Chancellorisji11al and bi11di11g to the student.
4.4 SELF-INSPECTIONOFANSVVER SCRIPTS
Allstudents are required to check their evaluated mid-tenn and end-tenn exam answer papers as and when notified by the faculty concerned or the Dean's Office by the stipulated deadline. Students are not allowed to carry the answer papers outside tl1e premises norare permitted to take photographs of the answer papers. For any totalling errors of marks or omission of evaluation of any segment of the answer(s), they arc required to leave a written note with the secretary showing the answer papers for rcfcrcncc/vcrification of the faculty conccmcd. There is no scope for alteration of marks at the stage of viewing the answer papers. The main purpose of allowing the students to see their answer papers is to enable them to obtain a feedback on his/her performance. However, unless thestudents check their evaluated answer papers within a maximum period of5 days, then there will notbe any opportunity given tocheck their answers papers thereafter.
4.5 RE-EVALUATION OF END TERM/SEMESTER ANSWER SCRIPTS
4.5.1 A student is permitted to apply for re-evaluation of the End Term/Semester answer scripts by applying in the Re-Evaluation of Answer Script Form from their respective Dean's Office with theapproval of the Dean.
4.5.2 Re-evaluation is only allowed for theory papers. For practical/ dissertation/ viva- voce, request for re-evaluation is not permitted.

4.5.3 The student should select the papers carefully in which (s)he wish to seek re­ evaluation. nosecond application foradditional papers will beaccepted.
4.5.4 Re-evaluation is to beapplied for within 7 days of the date of answer script display by thefaculty/school.
4.5.5 Prescribed fee: Rs. 500/- (rupees five hundred only) per paper to bedeposited with theuniversity accounts department and money receipt obtained should be attached with thisapplication form.
4.5.6 A candidate may apply for re-evaluation for a maximum of three (3) papers/coursesin a tem1/ semester.
4.5.7 After re-evaluation the marks may increase, decrease or remain unchanged and the 4lsame shall be accepted by the student and no further re-evaluation requests, improvement exams or any other routes of remediation shall remain open for thestudent.
4.6 FEEDBACK
(a)		Feedback Uy Faculty - Mid-Course Feedback and Communication of Grades
4.6.1 Faculty will conununicate to thestudents, thegradesof quizzesand short-tests and other assignments normally within JO (ten) days after theadministration of thequizor test or submission of assignment, as the case may be. In any case, mid-term feedback comprising at least 35% to 40% of thecomponents will he given to the students at least IO (ten) days before thecommencement of the end-term.
4.6.2 The Dean's Office will announce the final grades through the UMS as and when received from facultyand thestudentsconcerned should promptlycheck their grades through the UMS. The CQPI of the top ten students will he displayed on the students' notice board/Intranet at the end of the academic year.
4.6.3 The grades of sponsored candidates, if any, may be communicated to the sponsoring organizations at the request of thesn1dcnt and/or of thesponsoring organisation. As a general rule, the grades of a student will not be communicated to any other person or organisation without the consent of the student concerned, except to parents/ legal guardian of the student under such circumstances as decided and deemed fit by the Dean. The Dean's Office will am1ounce thefinal grades through the UMSas and when received from faculty and the students concerned should promptly check their grades through the UMS. TheCQPI of the top threesn1dents and medal winners will be displayed on the Notice Board/Intranet at theendof theAcademic Year.
(B)    Feedback By Students
4.6.4 Students are required to provide their feedback on different courses as and when notified by the Dean's Office, failing which they will not be able to see theirgrades on the UMS.

4.6.S  On compliance to para-4.6.1 will invite a monetary penalty up to INR 5,000/­ or a deduction of0.2 gradepoints or any other penalty as may bedeemed fit by the Dean (Academics) inthe concerned course.
( c)    Feedback from other Stakeholders
4.6.6 The XlM University engages in regular feedback from key stakeholders to improve upon with changing time. This includes the feedback from students, faculty, parents, hostorganization, recruiters, alumni etc.The XIM University uses different modes and platforms to gather feedback and then collate and analyze to further improve upon.
4.6.7 The student's feedback is a regular (taken all.er end of tenn / semester) and mandatory process of course pedagogy. The feedback is shared with course faculty to takeappropriate stepsand improve upon further.
4.6.8 Toengage the parent and gather their feedback XlM University provides an open forum. During the induction prognm1 of new students' parenls are also invited in one session to deliberate with faculty members. Also, parents are updated aboutstudents' lifeon campus as and whenrequired.
4.5.9  Host organizations play an important role by engaging PG students for field­ based learning (like SIP, RLLE, OL, SDP, ULP, etc.), that are compulsory components of pedagogy. The feedback from the host organization is part of students' evaluation andcompletion of degree.
The XlM University keeps an open feedback system from recruiters to team on how to improve upon the student's Leaming. During the final placement process the recruiters are given wilh a fonu with the names and profiles of the shortlisted students. Once the recruitment process is over, the recruiters fill in the feedback form with the list of the selected students with other necessa1y details (e.g. CTC I Annum, etc.) and share their comments on the students. These comments arc used as feedback for the other students/batchesto follow or improve their performance, as advised bythem.
The alumni play an important roleas a bridge toengage XIM University with the external world. With these mandate alumni are engaged in various ways (like Alumni Connect etc.) to provide an overall feedback on envisioning the University's Mission and Vision.
4.7 PERFORMANCECOUNSELING
4.7.1 Each student shall be placed under the guidance of a Faculty Advisor. The Advisor can counsel the student on various curricular and co- curricular matters, on procedures and nonns of the Program and on living in the campus. Students may also seek advice/guidance of their Faculty Advisors as and when they feel the need for such counsel.
4.7.2 Students experiencing difficulties in performing well may seek guidance from the concerned faculty and/or their Faculty Advisor, on ways to improve their perfonnance.

4.7.3 The Dean's Office shall periodically communicate the performance/ conduct of the students c-0ncemed to respective Faculty Advisors, who in turn shall appropriately acton thefeedback and render counsel/guidanceas necessary.
4.8 l\llAKE-UP EXAMINATION AND NUJ\1BER OF CHANCES
4.8.1 If a student has missed a mid-term or anend-term examination due toabsence with priorpermission from theDean,s/he should report his/her presence to the Dean and Controller of Examinations within one week of returning to the campus for the purpose of make-up examination. Necessary arrangements shall be made by the CoE Office to conduct a make-up examination within two weeksofher/his re-joining.
4.8.2 In such an event, the faculty is responsible for ensuring that the grade is submitted to the Dean's Office by the faculty without undue delay. The student's transcript will carry an Incomplete grade until and unless the Dean's Office receives the final gradefrom the faculty by the deadline specified for this purpose.
4.8.3 Unauthorized absence for the end-term examination will fetch 'F' grade in that course. The Dean may however, sanction a Make-Up examination for the missed end- term examination if satisfied ahout the sufficiency of the causeof absence, but with a disadvantage of I Grade point reduction from the total gradeobtained in thecourse.
4.8.4 Students who appear for Make-Up examinations for missed end-term/ end semester examinations for any reason shall deposit the prescribed fee of Rs.2000/- for the same as notified bythe Dean's Office, and furnish the receipt to theCoEOffice.
4.8.5 If thestudent who had missed theEnd-Term examination with permission fails to avail himself/herself of the opportunity to make-up the missed cxamination(s),s/hc will befinally awarded O marks for that segment, and no second opportunity for a make-up examination or a re-test will be given. The final grade for such acourse will comprise of the marks that havebeen attained by thestudent inotheravailed evaluation components/segmentsof thecourse.
4.8.6 If the absence was due to unauthorized leave and the sn1dcnt was later permitted to take the make-up examination on compassionate grounds under para-4.8.3. but fails to avail the make-up oppornmity, s/he shall be awarded an "F" grade for the full c-0urse and cease to have any further opportunity for re­ appearing in theend tem1exam forthat course.
4.8.7 A student, who has left anysegment of a course incomplete, should complete the requirements of thecourse in thesame academic year. If thecourse is in last Term or Semester, all requirements must be completed within the next availableTeml/Semester. Failing this, the'I' component marksshall be treated as zero and the total grade would be calculated taking the "I" component as zero. It should be clearly understood that the student will not be entitled to receive the degree until s/he completes the requirements stipulated herein­ before for program completion.

    SECTION-5 AWARD OF DEGREE


5.1 QUALlFYlNGSTANDARDSFORAWARDOFDEGREE
5. I. I  CQPI to be achieved by a student foraward of the Degree.
a) The minimum qualifying CQPI lo be achieved by a student for successful completion of any two-year Master degree program and award of the Degree Certificate is 5.5 outof!0.
b) First yearstudentssecuringa CQPIof5 or more would only bepromoted to the second  year. Students with CQPI below 5 at the end of first year will be allowed to take Supplementary Examination for maximum four subjects to secure the minimum required CQPI of 5. The student can appear for the Supplementary Examination for the courses where S/he has secured less than
6.25 ofgradepoint. If the student fails to secure the CQPI of 5 after appearing the supplementary examination, S/he has to either repeat the first year or withdraw from the Program.
5.1.2 Inaddition, a student mustnot securean 'F' gradeinany courseto be eligible to get the Degree.
a) A student will be allowed to appear for the supplementary examination to remove an 'F'gradeaflerpaying thefeeofRs.20,000/-percourse.
b) If a smdent fails to remove the 'F' grade after appearing the supplementary examination, then the student has to repeat the year or withdraw from the programme.
c) The supplementary examination will be a comprehensive examination for the entire paper (of 100 marks for the entire course), which will replace all the components of the previousevaluation in thatcourse.
5.2 DISQUALIFICATION FORA,VARD OFDEGREE
5.2.1 If a studentdoes not meet the qualifying criteriaas per the nonnsvide Para-5.1 at the end of Ist/2nd year, s/he will repeat the entire first/second year as the case may be, excluding the courses wherein s/he received a Quality Point of
6.25 orabove.
5.2.2 A student failing vide 5.1.2 in the first year but securing the minimum prescribed or higher CQPI at the end of the first year, can be promoted to the 2nd year with acondition that the student will have to take a Supplementary Examination in a maximum of four courses at least a week before the commcnc-cmcnt Term-IV. Such students appearing for the Supplementary Examination can register for Term-IV only with a written and signed undertaking that if the disqualifying combination could not be overcome even after the retest then they wiII be governed by Para- 5. I. I(b). However, such an

opportunity will not be granted to a student who has already repeated a year vide Sec-5.2.1 or 5.2.2. ln other words, the provision of 5.2 will not be applicable to a student who isalready repeatinga year.
5.2.3 In a"Supplementary Examination" under 5.2.2, a student is permitted to score a grade point not higher than 6.74 or 'B' Grade. If s/hc docs not improve to qualify for promotion on retest under 5.5.2, allowed only once as above, the student will be required to repeat the firstyear.
5.2.4 Ifa student is notable to meet the prescribed minimum CQPI of5.5at the end of the sixth term, or either atleast two Immersion courses arc incomplete or the SIP stands incomplete, s/he will notqualify to graduate. For the courses where the student hasscored less than 6.25 as gradepoint, the student will be given an option to appear for a Make-Up examination in those subjects witbin 30-45 days after Convocation limited lo a maximum of 4 papers of 2nd year of the program. A student is permitted to score a grade point not higher than 6.74 or "B" Grade.The students will be permitted to appearfor Make Exams by paying a fee of INR 20,000 per course in which s/he wants to take the make-up opportunity. In case of incomplete Immersion courses or the SIP, s/he will be required to complete it with the junior batch, before s/hc is eligible for graduation./\ maximum of3(thrcc) in 2nd year and4 (four) subjects in Ist year can be taken up in this clause to improve the CQPI. Under no circumstances, a student will be given the option to appear for supplementary examination in a maximum of 7 papers during the entire two year duration of the MBA programme. For example, if thestudent bas already appeared in supplementary examination in 4 papers in the fo:st year to remove disqualifying combination, s/he can not avail to writesupplementary examination in the courses of the first
yearand can writesupplementary examination onlyin a maximum of3 courses of the second year. In such cases, the student needs to repeat the second year or withdraw from theprogramme.
5.2.5 The Make-Up Examination as per 5.2.4 will also be a comprehensive examination of I00 Marks for the entire course. The decision to allow for Make-Up Examination will be with the approval of the Dean. Thestudent can apply for permission for Make-Up Examination for one or more than one course (subject to a maximum of courses as mentioned in 5.2.4) onlyonceafter submitting an undertaking that ifs/he fails to secure the minimum CQPI of5.5 required to get the degree, s/he may discontinue the programme or repeat the second year ofprogramme in thenextacademic year.
5.2.6 If a smdent is not able to complete the program for not meeting the prescribed minimum CQPI of 5.5 at the end of the sixth term because of taking courses beyond the prescribed minimum, s/he will not be allowed to drop those courses. However, s/he will be given a chance lo repeat courses as per the Para-
5.2.4.Ifa student has disqualifying grades as per 5.1.2 and alsodoes notget the minimum required CQPI at the end of the second year, then 5.2.4 will be applicable. The student should be able to remove the disqualifying combination of grades as well as meet the minimum required CQPI by taking a

Supplementary Examination. Inability to address any one or both the requirements will make5.1 applicable to thestudeot.
5.3 DEGREE ANO TRANSCRIPTS
5.3.1 At the end of the second year "Master degree" will be awarded to those students who havefulfilled all theconditions and requirements for theDegree, and who have been approved by the Faculty Council of the School, the University's Academic Council and Board of Governors for award of the Degree. The Academic Dean of the School will place the result of successful students before the Faculty Councilof the respective School. After it is passed by the Faculty Council, the result will be submitted to the Academic Council and thereafter will be sent for approval to the Board of Governors of XlM University, Bhubaneswar.
5.3.2 If a graduating student does not collect her/his degree certificate rrom the University, it wilI bedispatched to him/ her by registered post/courier service aod School aod/or the University shall not be held responsible for the same thereafter.
5.3.3 /\ student must have cleared all thedues of the University before the issue of Degree certificates and final transcripts. The award of Degree shall be withheld for non- payment of dues and non- selllement of accounts with the University orany establishment functioning under the University.
5.3.4 Provisional Certificate may he issued to a snidcnt who applies for it hy the Controller of Examinations, after thedeclaration of results hut before the issue ofthefinal degree certificate.
5.3.5 The Degree Certificate will beawarded by XTM University, Bhubancswar.
5.3.6 The Degrees are conferred at the University's Annual Convocation that is nom1ally held in the month of March/April every year. All students who qualify for the Degree are expected to attend the Convocation as a mandato1y requirement except thosedebarred from participating in theconvocation as per
5.3.7 Incase thestudent who has graduated loses his/hercertificate or transcript, and wants a duplicate of either of those two documents, s/he needs to apply for it providing the FlR copy citing such lossand pay?3000/- totheaccounts office for either the certificate or transcript. Hence, if the applicant needs both the documents, s/hc needs to pay?6000/-.
5.3.8 Extra copies of transcripts can be obtained on application for the same addressed to the Controller of Examinations and on payment of fees as applicable.
5.4 MEDALS OFACADEMICEXCELLENCE
For outstanding academic performance, medals are presented at the time of the Convocation, subject to thecondition that the award-winning student has qualified for the Degree and has not violated the academic discipline of the program at any time during her/his tenure at theUniversity.

SECTION-6
CAREER ADVISORY SERVICES (CAS)

The XIM University CAS is designed to provide suitable cooperation and coordination to PG students to match their learned professional skills with recruiting organization's requirements. To achieve this, the student volunteers work with the Associate Dean-CAS andtheCAS Officers under the support oft beDeans of therespective schools and university administration and faculty members. 11 is a collective teamwork with collegiality and camaraderie.
6.1 GUIDINGPRINCIPLESFORTHESTUDENTCASCOMMITTEE
The actions of Student CAS Committee Members will be guided by the following principles:
6.1.l  Every Student CAS Committee member shall be fair and refrain from any actions which may lead toa conflict ofinterest.
6.1.2 S/he will promote transparency and proactively disseminate information to thebatch as required.
6.1.3 His/her actions will be guided first bythe interest of theSchool/University and thereafter bytheeollective interests of thestudents.
6.1.4 S/he will abide by the directions given by the Dean of the School, Associate Dean, CAS, Faculty members and CAS Office and respective Dean's office in letterand inspirit.
6.1.5 The member should inform the CAS Office and Dean's office in case s/he plans to travel outof campusfor aduration exceeding2 days.
6.1.6 All batch meets conducted by the student CAS Committee or the CAS Departments shall be done with prior approval received from the concerned Dean of theschool without fail, and shall berecorded ifitisanonline meeting. For both online andoffiine CAS Meetings, theMinutes of theMeeting shall be duly noted,signed and submitted to theCAS office with copy served to the VC Office, Registrar andtheconcerned Dean of the School.All Batch meetsshall be conducted only during weekdays between Monday-Friday and shall not continue beyond 11 p.m. Indian time. All online meeting footage to be submitted to the Dean's office, Registrar's office and Documentation center without anyediting. Failure toadhere to this provision may entail disciplinary action against thestudent CAS Committee.
6.2 CODEOFCONDUCT
The following codeofconduct shall be bindingonevery PG student in Campus Hiring­ related matters:

6.2.1 Any student not fulfilling the responsibilities assigned to him/her to theextent expected of him/her will be liable to be penalized as per the code of conduct specified in this Manual of Policies.
6.2.2 The penaltie,s may be in the form of fines, strike and/or debarment from applying to companies and/ or exclusion from the entire Campus Hiring process altogether. The appropriate penalty suggested bythe CAS Committee will be communicated to the Associate Dean for implementation with approval received from the Dean of the School. The Associate Dean and the Dean of the School may increase or decrease the quantum of the penalty as they may deem fit.
6.2.3 Personal attempts by students to contact potential recruiters for one's own individual placement is prohibited. If a student decides to use his/her personal contacts under special circumstances, S/he should take necessary approval from the Associate Dean, Career Advisory Services and Student CAS Committee. Any instance of non-compliance to university norms may lead to recommendationsof penalty by the CAS Committee to theAssociate Dean for implementation with approval received from theDean of theSchool.
6.2.4 A student's application for placement with an organization amounts to expression of his/her interest in that organization. No student will be allowed to withdraw from the selection process once his/her resume has been forwarded to the organization. An exception will be made only if the student has already signed out of the process, either voluntarily or by vi1tue of an earlier offerthrough thecampus hiring process or asa penalty.
6.2.5 Students who opt-out of Summer Internships ,md Final Placements an-anged by the School/University will have to attend all activities (Leadership talks, Webinars, Conclaves, Batch meets, etc.) conducted by the School, Associate Dean, Career Advisory Services, CAS Faculty members and Student CAS Committee.
6.2.6 None of the students are expected to leave the campus when there is an announced campus hiring process/period. Violation of "on campus" stay instructed by the Associate Dean-CAS will invite penalties such as but not limited to, fines and/or debarment and/or complete sign-out of the student from any/allcampus hiringprocesses.
6.2.7 After applying to a company, if a shortlisted student fails to appear for the respective hiring process, s/he will be signed-out from the Campus Hiring process. In the event that the campus hiring process is held virtually, all shortlisted students arc to ensure their availability during the entire hiring process, failing which theappropriate penaltieswill be levied.
6.2.8 No CAS Committee members shall be imposing any penalty on anv student. All suggestions and recommendationsfor penalties are to be made to theAssociate Dean-CAS in writing to thestudent with CC marked to the Dean of theSchool.

6.2.9 CAS students must ensure that they uphold respect and dignity while conducting CAS meetings with students.The Values of the University and the School should be upheld at all times. Bad behaviour, misdemeanours, verbal misconduct, abuse, physical or mental harassment of any sort, type,or manner towards any student will be not tolerated. No student should be threatened in any manner by way of any verbal or physical conduct. All students have the right to appeal to higher authorities and the CAS students or the CAS department should not obstrnct orstop any student to seek the paths of natural justice. For sntdcnts who do notadhereto or respect CAS Guidelines, shall be subject to the provisions of the MoP irrespective of any committee membership.
6.3 PLACEMENTETIQUETTES
6.3.I   School/UniversityJ11w,:c
Students should ensure that they do not portray a poor image of the School/University, Faculty and the placement process, as this will not only reflect poorly on them but alsoon theentireSchool/University.
6.3.2  /11teractio11 with Company
Students should not initiate personal interaction with the company following a presentation, Q&Aor anyotherofficial fonuu. Interaction should be limited to formal interaction only. If a student is found in breach of this clause, s/hc shall be penalized. The appropriate penalty suggested by the CAS Committee will be communicated to the Associate Dean for implementation with approval received from the Dean of the School. The Associate Dean and the Dean of the School may increase or decrease thequantum of the penalty as they may deem fit.
CONDUCT
(a) Students should ensure absolute professional conduct during any Campus Hiring Process, especially during Group Discussions/Interviews. Any complaint/negative feedback (written or verbal) bya company shall lead to strict penalties. The appropriate penalty suggested by the CAS Committee will be communicated to the Associate Dean for implementation with approval received from the Dean of the School. The Associate Dean and the Dean of the School may increase or decrease thequantum of the penalty as they may deem fit.
(b) Informing the rccrnitcr regarding a decision to not proceed with the application/ reassessment of the opportunity at any point of time during the process, would lead to a count towards the 3-strike policy and/or debarment whichever deems fit by theAssociate Dean-CAS and ratified by the School Dean.
(c) Any communication/feedback (written or verbal) received from a company regarding deliberate tanking/non- performance/underperformance / Substandard submissions (Visumes/video resumes, PPT etc.) bya studentshall result in heavy penalties including but not limited to complete debarment from further campus hiring processes. In any event, such an instance shall count as astrike towards the

3- strike policy and/or debarment whichever deems fit by the Associate Dean­
CAS and ratified by theSchool Dean
(d) CAS Committee work isvoluntary work shouldered bystudents.There shall beno quid-pro-quo (such as exchange of favors, doing project works, or assignments etc.) between any CAS Committee Member and other students. All students are expected to maintaina healthy andcollegial relationship in theSchool.
6.4 RESUMEGUIDELINES
6.4.1 Student Executive Council, Class Representatives, Cultural Representatives, Core Committee Coordinator and Members, Coordinators of Functional Committees and Chief of Residence Secretaries arc to be mentioned in the PORcolumn.
6.4.2 Residence Secretaries, Members of Functional Committees, Coordinators and Members of Exemplar, and Interest committees arc to be highlighted in the extracurricular achievements.
6.4.3 For thefirst year, only Class Representatives and Cultural Representatives are to be mentioned in the POR column and Shadow members of Core, Exemplar, Functional and Interest committees arc to be mentioned in theextra-curricular achievements.
6.4.4 For second years, shadow membership during the first year is NOT to be mentioned and will bestruck off.
6.4.5 The prescribed CV format as per lhe CAS guidelines will be shared by the Student CAS Committee to theentire batch. Students who may have doneany ce1tifica.tions with duration of at least 10 hours are allowed to mention it in their CV without fail. Any other National level, State Level or District Level achievements can be mentioned in the CV by the student. For any matters of concern, discrepancy or conflict during CV verification of a student by CAS members, the Dean of the School will take a final stand on the matters to be included in theCV forthe bestof thestudentand theSchool concerned.
6.5 ABSENCE POLICY
6.5.1 In case of absence from any event (online or offline) organized by lhe CAS committee, prior intimation is to be given in email/written format and submitted at the respective Dean and obtain an approval and copy marked to CAS office before the start of the event. Any form of reason or, in case of alleged illness, a proper medical certificate, from the University approved Doctor, with the doctor's seal, address, registration number, signature and other details needs to besubmitted prior to the event duly to the Dean of the School and permission obtained. Failure to do so, or in case the reason and/or medical proof is found lo be forged/fake, will count as an event towards debarment from further processes and/or fines that shall be imposed for non­ attendance.

6.5.2 Approval for absence will be decided by therespective Dean of theSchool. In case of any issues, the Dean's office and Career Advisory Services office, can beapproached and theirdecision would befinal and binding.
6.5.3 Any absence due to health reasons needs to be substantiated by the medical approval from any approved doctor. Submission of prescription of medicines would not beconsidered as a proof.All proofs need to besubmitt.ed before the startof theeventor inexceptional cases within24 hours of theeventstarttime. Incase noproof is provided, thestudent will not heallowed to sit for thenext3 companies who visit thereafter- this, in addition to thecount of such an event as a strike as wellas thefines thatshall he imposed for non-attendance.
6.6 PAYMENTOFFINES
6.6.1 Any monetary fine or penalty for any misconduct related to CAS can be suggested by the CAS Committee to theAssociate Dean-CAS, which may be levied finally onthestudentafler theapprovalof the Dean of theSchool.
6.6.2 ALLfines are to be paid to the Accounts Office of XIM University ONLY. In this regard, theemail received from the Associate Dean-CAS on the reason and quantum of fine shall be forwarded by the Dean/Dean's Office to the Accounts Department ofXIM University forpayment link.
6.6.3 No Student, whether belonging to the CAS Committee or any other student committee shalI collect any money in the name of penalty or fine from any otherstudent.
6.7 DISPUTESANDAPPEAL
6.7.1 All decisions of penalty will befinally ratified by the Dean of the School after consulting theAssociate Dean,CASCommitteeand thealleged student.
6.7.2	An aggrievedstudent may appeal to the Deanof theSchool forpardon.
6.7.3  The Vice Chancellor of the University is the final appellate authority and the decision of theshall befinal and bindingonall parties.
6.8 SUMMER INTERNSlllPPROGRAM (SIP)
6.8. l  TheSummer Internship Progran1is a mandatory andanintegral partof most of the postgraduate programs offered by this University. The Career Advisory Services(CAS) Office, theDean (Academics) ofrespective PG Programs and Associate Dean of CAS will assist the students in finding a suitable summer internship. The Summer internships authorized by the CAS only will be recognized forSummer Internship.
6.8.2 Students whodo notcomplete theirsummer internship will not bepromoted to thesecond year.
6.8.3 The duration of the summer internship is at least eight weeks and up to ten weeks.

6.9 FINALCAREERADVISORYSERVICE
6.9.l  The CAS Office assists the students in planning their career and facilitates their entry into jobs which match their interests. It serves as a cham1el of communication between students and organizations to recruit students on the campus.
6.9.2 Although the University shall make every attempt to facilitate the process of getting each student jobs which match their interest, it cannot be taken as a matterof right.
6.9.3 As a matter of policy, the academic work of the students will take precedence overother activities.
6.9.4 Students appearing for CAS activities must ensurethat they inform the Dean's Office of respective PG Programs through CAS Office well in advance of CAS activities or processes about their official absence from course sessions, failing which appropriate disciplinary action may be taken against the defaulting student by the Dean of respective PG Programs. XlM University reserves the right to set academic and other minimum criteria for students to avail of theCASof the University.
6.9.5 The CAS Office, in addition, may circulate a Guideline booklet for all the students, detailing further specificities after ratification from thedean of the school.

SECTION-7
PROGRAM WISE CORE AND ELECTIVE COURSES

COURSE: MBA- BUSINESS MANAGEMENT

Term-ICodeCourse NameCreditBM/PBM/25/TI/SORMSocial Research Methodology1.5BM/PBM/25/fl/MRKIMarketing - I2BlWPBJ\,1/25/T1/MTDMMicroec-0nomic Theory for Decision-Making3RM/PRM/25/TI/MACManagerial Computing3BM/l'BM/25/1'1/FUACfundamentals of Accounting [Audit Course)IBJ\,VPBJ\,1/25/TI/FRFinancial Reporting3RM/PRM/25/TI/FQUTFundamentals ofQuantitative Techniques [Audit Course]IBM/PBM/25ffl/FIMfinancial Institutions and Markets2BJ\,VPBJ\,1/25/TI/EMCOIEffective Managerial C'.ommunications • I2BJ\,VPBJ\,1/25/TI/BUSBusiness Statistics3Term-IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditBJ\,I/PBJ\,l/25/T2/UTLOUnderstanding Teams, Leadership, and Organi7.ational
Snucture3RM/PRM/25/T2/0ROperation Research2BM/PBM/25m/OMIOperntions Management • I28J\,VPBJ\,l/2S/T2/MRK2Marketing - II2RM/PRM/25/T2/MATPMacroeconomic Theo,y and Policy3BM/PBM/25/11/EMC02Effective Managerial Communications • II2BM/PBM/25/T2/COFICorporate Finance38J\,VPBM/25/T2/ADMAccounting for Decision Making3Term-IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditBM/PBM/25/1'3/STRlvlStrategic Management3BM/PBM/25/T3/LABLegal Aspects of Business2BM/PBM/25/D/FSAFinancial Statement AnalysisIBM/PBM/25ffi/OM2Operntions Management-II2BM/PBM/25/D/MAREMarketing Research2
BM/PBM/25/T3/BISBusiness Information System3BM/PBM/25m/EEBEconomic Environment of Business1.5BM/PB!vl/25/T3/DTMDesign Thinking for ManagersJ.5BM/PB!vl/25m/PPPOPeople, Pcrfonnancc and Possibilities3Term-IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditBtvl/PBM/24fT4/ETSUEthics & Sustainability3BM/PBM/24/T4/SCASStrategy Capstone Simulation1.5BM/PBM/24/T4/AIMAAl Marketing3Btvl/PB!vl/24/T4/82BMB2B Marketing38M/P8M/24/T4/DRMIlanking Risk Management313M/P13M/24fr4/13CBUl:llockchain for l:lusiness1.5Btvl/PB!vl/24/T4/BTAIBusiness Transfonnation using Artificial Intelligence313M/1'13M/24fr4/CORECorporate Resm,cturing3BM/PBM/24fr4/DITRDynamics of International Trade3Btvl/PBM/24fT4/ERPEnterprise Resource Planning38M/P8M/24/T4/FINSFinancial Services313M/1'13M/24f1A/IMCOIntegrated Marketing Communication3Btvl/PBM/24/T4/ISDIIT Strategy Design & Implementation3BM/PBM/24/T4/PBMAProduct and Brand Management313M/PBM/24f1'4/PAWProject Appraisal & Working Capital Management3Btvl/PBM/24fT4/PROMProject Management3Btvl/PBM/24/T4/SDMSales and Distribution Management3Btvl/PBM/24/T4/S/\PMSecurity Analysis & Portfolio Management38M/P8M/24/T4/SEOMServices Operations Management313M/P13M/24ff4/SICStrategy Implementation and Control3Tcrm-VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditBM/PBM/24/TS/APMDAdvanced Product Management for Digital Products2BM/PBM/24/T5/BAWRBusiness Analytics with R3BM/PBM/24fTS/BPMBusiness Process Management3BM/PBM/24/TS/COBEConsumer Behaviour3BM/PBM/24fr5/CNNConsumer Neuroscience and Neuromarketing2

BM/PBM/24fT5/CRMACustomer Relationship Management3BM/PBM/24/TS/DAVMData Visualization for Managers3BM/PB1W24/T5/EMTBEmerging Technologies for Business3BM/PBM/24fT5/ENTREntrepreneurship3B!VI/PBM/24/TS/FISMFixed Income Securities & Markets3BM/PBM/24/TS/GTSTGame Theory and Strategy3BM/l'BM/24fl"5/INMAInternational Marketing3B!VI/PBM/24/TS/IOETJOT and Other Emerging Technologies for Managing Operarions3BM/PBM/24fT5/ITRMIT Risk Management3BM/PBM/24/TS/MAANMarketing Analytics1.5BM/PBM/24/TS/MMISMultidisciplinary Models for lnfonnation Systems3BM/PBM/24fT5/0FSWOprions, Futures &Swap3B!VI/PBM/24/T5/PIEOPlanning IT Enabled Organisation3RM/PRM/24/TS/PRMPlatfonn Business Models3BM/PBM/24(1.5/RAAJRe-Imagine Business with Agentic Al3B!VI/PBM/24/T5/SCMASupply Chain Management3RM/Pl1M/24/T5/SUrlSustainability FinanceJBM/PBM/24fl"5NlBValuation and Investment Banking3Term-VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditB!VI/PB!VV24/T6/ACANAccounting Analytics311M/Pl1M/24/T6/ASCMAdvanced Supply Chain ManagementJBM/l'BM/24fr6/BECOBehavioral Economics3B!VI/PB!VV24/T6/BUDYBusiness Dynamics3BM/PBM/24/T6/BUSIBusiness Simulation3BM/PBM/24(1.6/CLBUCorporate Jmage Building3B!VI/PBM/24/T6/COTSCorporate Taxation & Strategy3BM/PBM/24/T6/EADMEconomic Analytics for Decision Making3BM/PBM/24fl"6/FAMEFinancial Analysis with Modeling in Excel38M/PB!VV24/T6/INFIInternational Finance3BM/PBM/24fT6/MPBManaging Productivity in Business3BM/PB!VV24/T6/MCBOMarketing to Consumers at the BoP3BM/PBM/24/T6/NEPENegotiation and Persuasion3BM/PBM/24fT6/NEDMNeuroeconomics for Decision Making3BM/PB!VV24/T6/PFMAPublic Financial Management3
BM/PB!vl/24/T6/QMBDQuaotitative Methods for Busioess Decisioos3BM/PBM/24/T6/REMARetail Management3BM/PB!vl/24ff 6/SERMServices Marketing38M/PBM/24/T6/SENMSpons & Entertainment Marketing3BM/PBM/24/T6/SRMAStrategic Marketing3BM/PB!vl/24/T6/SSLMStrategic Sourcing and Lean Materials Managcmem3BM/PBM/24/T6/TIMATechnology and Innovation Management1.5
















































COURSE:
EMBA - BUSINESS MANAGEMENT




FOUNDATION COURSECourse CodeCourse NameCreditBM/EBM/25/T0/MOEXModeling with Excel1.5BM/EBM/25/T0/MMPModem Management Principles1.5BM/EBM/25/T0/LEDELeadership Development2BM/EBM/25/T0/DETHDesign Thinking2TERM-ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditBM/EBM/25/T I/MTDMMicroeconomic Theory for Decision Making3BM/EBM/25/T I/MlvlANMarketing Management' _,13M/E13M/25/TI/FRANFinancial Reporting and Analysis3BM/EBM/25!11/ETSUEthics and Sustainability3BM/EBM/25/T I/ELCMEffective Leadership Communication for the
Modem Workplace3BM/EBM/25/T I/DTBUDigital Transformation of Business3BM/EBM/25/T I/BUSTBusiness Statistics'_,TERM -IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditBl\1/EBM/25fl"2/U"l'LOSUnderstanding Teams, Leadership, and
Organizational Structure3BM/EBM/251T2/SLDAStrategic Leadership i1i the Digital Age3Bl\1/EBM/25/T2/OPREOperations Research3BM/EBM/25/T2/OPMAOperations Management' -'BM/EBM/251T2/MATPMacroeconomic Tiicory and Policy3Bl\1/EBM/25!1"2/FIMAFinancial Management,
-'BM/EBM/25/T2/COMJ\Cost and Management Accounting,
-'TERM - III(Elective Courses to beSelected from the Courses Offered by the Alea Head)Course CodeCourse NameCreditBM/EBM/23/T3/PPPOPeople, Perfonnance and Possibilities (CORE
COURSE)3
TERM -IV(Elective Courses to be Selected from the Courses Offered by the Area Head)Course CodeCourse NameCredit
BM/EBM/23/f4/CGLA
Corporate Governance and Legal Aspects of Business (CORE COURSE)
3Term-VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditBM/EBM/23/TS/SCASStrategy Capstone Simulation2
COURSE:
MBA- HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT



TERM-ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditHR/PHR/25/1'1/ECMAEconomics for Managers, ,HR/Pl IR/25/T1/CSMCommunication Skills for Managers3HR/PHR/25/TI/HRPHuman Resource Planning2HR/PHR/25/TI/ERECEmployment Relations and Employment Contracts3HR/PHR/25/T1/IHRMIntroduction to HRivl2HR/l'HR/25/rl/JLSBIntroduction to Indian Legal System for Business ManagersIIJR/Pl IR/25/TI/LEDULegislation for Dusiness3HR/PHR/25/fl/MJ\CMManagerial ComputingIHR/Pl·IR/25/TI/INORIndividuals in Organisation3TERM - IICoun;e CodeCourse NameCreditHR/PHR/25m/LEADLeaming and Development3HR/PHR/25m/FRANFinancial Reporting and Analysis3HR/l'HR/25/1"2/CSADCompensation-Strategy and Administration, ,I IR/PIIR/25/T2/LIRLegislation for Industrial Relations3HR/PHR/25m/STORStaffing for Organisations, ,I-IR/PHR/25/T2/MARMMarketing Management3HR/PHR/25/T2/GTLGroup, Team and Leadership, 3HRJ[>HR/25/TI/QUMEQuantitative Methods,TERM - IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditHR/l'HR/25/f3/FINMFinancial Management2HR/Pl IR/25/T3/SRMSocial Research Methods2HR/PHR/25/T3/INRSIndustrial RclatiOIIS3HR/PHR/25/T3/DHRMDigital HRM2HR/PHR/25/T3/PEMAPcrfonnance Management, 3HR/l'HR/25/T3/BECBusiness Ethics and CSR,HR/PHR/25/T3/LSSLegislation for Social Security3HR/PHR/25/T3/0SDOrganisational Structure and Design2HR/l'HR/25/f3/0MOperations Management3
TERM- rvCourse CodeCourse NameCreditHR/PHR/24/T4/STMAStrategic Management3HR/PHR/24/T4/fNHRMInternational HRM3HR/PHR/24/1'4/CMACCompetency Mapping and Assessment Centre3HR/PHR/24/T4/HAHCHR Audit and HC Accounting3HR/PHR/24/T4/PICMPersonal Idenlity and Career Management3HR/PHR/24fr4/PRMAProject Management3HR/PHR/24/T4/GTSTGame Theory and Strategy3HR/PHR/24rf 4/HROIHRO Instruments1.5ilR/PHR/24/T4/HRANIIR Analytics2TERM -VCourse CodeCourse NameC'redilIIR/PiIR/24/T5/C113Coroorate Image Building3HR/PHR/24/TS/TAMATalent Management3HR/PHR/24rf5/ECEHEmployee Counseling and Employee Happiness3HR/PHR/24fr5/ECRMExecutive Compensation and Reward Management3HR/PHR/24/TS/OCDEOrganisational Cbangc and Development3HR/PHR/24/TS/OPGDDynamics of Personal Growth and Development3HR/PHR/24/T5/SLIMSocial Legislation for Indian Managers3TERM -VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditl lR/PIIR/24/T6/MDIManaging Diversity and Inclusion3HR/PHR/24/T6/BLOBuilding Leaming Organisation2HR/PHR/24fr6/CBNPCollective Bargaining and Negotiation Process2HR/PHR/24/T6/SFMASales Forc.e Management3HR/PHR/24fr6/NLENeuroscience of Leadership3HR/Pl·IR/24/T6/NALENew Age Leadership3HR/PHR/24/T6/WCPRWorkplace Counselling Practice2HR/PHR/24fr6/KMSDKnowledge Management Strategy and Design1.5HR/PHR/24/T6/SPMASpirituality in Management3HR/PHR/24/1'6/NEOMNeuroeconomics for Decision Making3HR/Pi IR/24/T6/BECOBehavioral Economics3
COURSE:
MBA-RURAL MANAGEMENT



TERM -TCourse CodeCourse NameCreditRM/PRM/25/fl/COMMCommunication3RM/PRNV25/fl/MEManagerial Economics3RM/PRNV25/fl/FRAFinancial Reponing and Analysis3RM/PRM/25/T I/HRMHuman Resource Management2RM/PRM/25/TI/QTQuantitative Techniques3RM/PRM/25/TI/SADASocietal Analysis & Development Action3RM/PRNV25/f 1/RJ>LSRum] Production & Livelihood Systems'.,RM/PRNV25/fl/MAManagerial Analysis1.5RM/PRNV25/fl/MMMarketing Management3TERM -11Course CodeCourse NameCreditRM/l'RM/25fr2/MPMicro Planning2RM/PRM/25/f2/SRNISocial Research Methods3RM/PRNV25/f2/CMACost & Management Accounting2RM/PRM/25/T2/0APDevelopment Administration & Policy3RM/PRM/25/T2/MEFMMacroeconomics & Financial Markets3RM/PRM/25/T2/0SDOrganisational Structure & Design3RM/J>RM/25/12/J>RAParticipatory Rural Appraisal0RM/PRNV25/f2/RLLERural Living & Learning Experience9TERM - IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditRM/PRM/25/T3/FMFinancial Management3RM/PRM/25/T3/IGBIndividual & Grou1> Behaviour2RM/PRM/25/T3/MISManagement Information Systems3RM/PRNV25/f3/0MOperations Management3
RM/PRNV25/f3/DPMDevelopment Program Management (Monitoring &
Evaluation)
3RM/PRNV25/f3/MRMarket Research3RM/PRM/25/T3/SMIBSocial Mobilisation & Institution Building2
TERM-IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditRM/PRM/24/f4/SRCESocially Responsible Business (CSR & ESG)3RM/PRM/24/f 4/STMStrategic Management3RM/PRM/24/f4/NRMNatural Resources Management3RM/PRM/24/f4/AFMAgriculture & Food Marketing3RM/l'RM/24/f4/CCMCooperatives & Collectives Management3RM/PRM/24/f4/FCBAFundamentals of Commercial Banking3RM/PRM/24/f4/FSDGFunding Sustainable Development Goals3RM/PRM/24/f 4/IARMInsurance & Risk Management3RM/PRM/24/f4/MFMMicro Finance Management3RM/PRM/24/f4/QRMQualitative Research Methods3RM/PRM/24/T4/RIMRural & Inclusivc Marketing3RM/PRM/24/T4/SAIASocial Audit and Impact Assessment3RM/PRM/24/T4/SCMSupply Chain Management3TRRM -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditRM/PRM/24/TS/DESDevelopment Ethics Seminar3RM/PRM/24/TS/AIMAAgriculnire Input Marketing3
RM/J>RM/24fl5/AJMLArtificial Intclligcncc & Machine Learning in Management
3RM/PIUvl/24/TS/CBConsumer Behaviour3RM/PIUvl/24/TS/DSIUvlData Science for Rural Management3RM/PIUvl/24/TS/DMDigital Marketing3RM/PRM/24/TS/EAMAEconometric Applications for Managers3RM/PRM/24/T5/PMFRProcurement Management for Food and Retail Industries3RM/PRM/24/TS/PPAPublic Policy & Analysis3RM/PRM/24/TS/RUBARural Banking3RM/PRM/24/TS/SDMSales & Distribution Management3RM/PRM/24/TS/SESocial Entrepreneurship3RM/J>IUvl/24/TS/SIDOStrategic Issues in Development Organisations3RM/PIUvl/24/TSNRUOValuation ofRural Organisation3
TERM-VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditRM/PRM/24/T6/CMDCommodity Markets & Derivatives3RM/PRM/24/T6/DIGDDigital Innovations for Governance & Development3RM/PRM/24/T6/ECOME-Commerce3RM/PRM/24/T6/FAVCFinancing Agricultural Value Chains3RM/PRM/24/T6/IRPlndepeodeot Research Project3RM/PRM/24fT6/IDIGInvoluntary Displacement & Inclusive Growth3RM/PRM/24fT6/MCMarketing Communication3RM/PRM/24/T6/RBWMRetail Banking and Wealth Management3RM/PRM/241T6/SATMSustainability Analytics: Text to Metrics3RM/PRM/241T6/TLTransformational Leadership3
COURSE:
MBA- URBAN MANAGEMENT & GOVERNANCE



TERM - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditHS/PUG/25/fl/MSCManagerial Skills & Communication3HS/PUG/25frl/QTQuantitative Techniques3HS/PUG/25/TI/MADMManagerial Analysis & Decision Modelling3HS/PUG/25/Tl/MECManagerial Economics3HS/PUG/25frl/SSSSettlement Systems Studio (SSS)3IIS/PUG/25/T I/GSANGeoinformatics and Spatial Analysis2HS/PUG/25/TI/FRAFinancial Reporting & Analysis3HS/PUG/25/TI/TSSUTechnology Shifts and Sustainable Urbanism3TERM -ITCourse CodeCourse NameCreditHS/PUG/25/r2/URMUrban Research Methods3I IS/PU0/25/T2/UPJUrban Policies and Institutions2HS/PUG/25/T2/0MOperations Management3HS/PUG/25/f2/HRMHuman Resource Management2HS/PUG/25fr2/0TLOrganizations, Teams and Leadership3I IS/PUG/25/T2/DTWDesign Thinking WorkshopIHS/PUG/25/f2/UMMIUrban MaMgcmcm & Municipal Immersion5TERM - IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditHS/PUG/25/I'3/MAMacroeconomic Analysis2HS/PUG/25/TJ/LMDRLand Management & Devt. Regulation3HS/PUG/25/TJ/ADMAccounting for Decision-making2HS/PUG/25/f3/MISManagement lnfonnation Systems3HS/PUG/25/I'J/PMProject Management2HS/PUG/25/TJ/FMFinancial Management3HS/PUG/25/T3/SMPAStakeholder Management and Participation2HS/PUG/25/I'3/MMMarketing Management3HS/PUG/25fr3/PETSPublic Ethics SeminarIHS/PUG/25/T3/HPCHabitat Practice ColloquiumI
TERM -IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditHS/PUG/24/T4/LECLegal Environment and Contracts3HS/PUG/24/T4/PDFProject Development and Financing3I IS/PUG/24/T4/UNSUrban Networks and Services4HS/PHS/24/T4/UIUrban lnfonnality3HS/PHS/24/T4/UAUrban Analytics3HS/PUG/24/T4/SMStrategic Management3HS/PHS/24/T4/PAEPolicy Analysis and Evaluation3HS/PUG/24/T4/HOUSHousing2I IS/PlIS/24/T4/MUGTManaging Urban Green Transitions3TERM -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditHS/PUG/24/TS/GSOPGovernance Stnic.tures and Operations2HS/PUG/24/TS/UELUrban Economy and Livelihoods2I IS/PUG/24/T5/CCRRClimate Change and Risk Resilience2HS/PUCi/24/TS/HDFHousing Development and Finance4HS/PUG/24/rS/UMUrban Mobility4HS/PUG/24/TS/WWMWaste and Water Management4HS/PUG/24/TS/REMReal Estate Management3HS/PUG/24/TS/ESGEnvironmcntal, Social and Governance3HS/PCi/24/TS/FMSFinancial Modelling and Simulation3HS/PUG/24ff5/CPDPCapstone Project Development and ProposalITERM-VIC.oursc CodeCourse NameCreditHS/PUG/24/T6/TOMATourism Management3HS/PUG/24/T6/GSCGender, Space and the City3HS/PUG/24/T6/CPCapstone Project7
COURSE:
MBA- SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT


TERM -1Course CodeCourse NameCreditSU/PSM/25/TI/GSASGeo-Spatial Application for Sustainability2SU/PSM/25/Tl/ESTEthics, Sustainability and Technology2SU/PSM/25/T1/SBTilSustainability Behaviour and Team Iluilding2SU/PSM/25/TI/HSDHuman and Sustainable Development3SU/PSM/25/T I/MSCManagerial Skills and Communication3SU/PSM/25/TI/QTQuantitative Techniques3SU/l'SM/25/Tl/SRMSocial Research Method3SU/PSM/25/T I/MEManagerial Economics3SU/PSM/25/T1/FRAfinancial Reporting and Analysis2TERM - IICourse-codeCourse NameCreditSU/PSM/25/T2/DOSDesigning Organizations for Sustainability3SU/PSM/25/T2/FMFinancial Management2SU/PSM/25/T2/SESSustainable Energy Systems3SU/PSM/25/T2/CNRMClimate Change & Natural Resource Management3SU/PSM/25/T2/CSRICorporate Social Responsibility'.,SU/PSM/25/T2/0MOperations Management3SU/PSM/25/T2/SDPSustuinabilily Discovery Programme3SU/PStvl/25/T2/GGAGreenhouse Gas Accounting1.5TERM - IIICourse-codeCourse NameCreditSU/PSM/25/T3/ELPIEnvironmental Laws, Policies and Institutions3SU/PSM/25/TJ/ESIAEnvironment and Social Impact Assessment3SU/PSM/25/T3/RERTRenewable Energy Resources and Technologies3SU/PSM/245/T3/SELSocial Entrepreneurship and Leadership2SU/PSM/25/T3/SRCSustainability Reporting and Compliance1.5SU/PSM/25/T3/HRMHuman Resource Managemem3SU/PSM/25/T3/MMMarketing Management3SU/PSM/25/T4/MADMManagelial Analysis and Decision Modelling'
TERM-IVCourse-codeCourse NameCreditSU/PSM/24/T4/CMSDCircular Models and Sustainable Design3SU/PSM/24/T4/ERMEnvironmental Impact Assessment3SU/PSM/24/T4/WR.MWater Resource Management3SU/PSM/24/T4/PMProject Management (PM)3SU/PSM/24/T4/AMDAAdvanced Methods of Data Analysis for Operation Management3SU/PSM/24/T4/COBEConsumer Behaviour3SU/PSM/24/T4/MARAMarketing Analytics3SU/PSM/24/T4/SAPMSecurity Analysis and Portfolio Management'.)SU/PSM/24/T4/INl'IInternational Finance3SU/PSM/24/T4/NRMNatural Resource Economics (NRM)1.5SU/PSl\1/24/T4/BABusiness Analytics1.5TERM -VCourse-codeCourse NameCreditSU/PSM/24/TS/WMWaste Management.3SU/PSM/24/TS/SMOBSustainable Materials and Green Building3SU/PSl\1/24/TS/ENRMEnvironmental Resource Management',SU/PSl\1/24/TS/SCMSupply Chain Management3SU/PSM/24/"f5/LMMLean Matelial Management3SU/PSM/24/TS/ECOME-Conuocrec',SU/PSM/24/TS/PAWCProject Appraisal and Working Capital Management3SU/PSM/24/TS/rAMEFinancial Analysis with Model in Excel (FAME)',SU/PSl\1/24/TS/DIMADigital Marketing3SU/PSM/24/TS/IRPIndependent Research Project4SU/PSM/24/TS/CPCapstone Project4TERM -VICourse-codeCourse NameCreditSU/PSM/24/T6/0HPSOccupational Health Safety and Process Sustainability',SU/PSM/24/T6/CLCAClimate Modelling and LCA3SU/PSM/24/T6/ENCMEnergy and Carbon Markets3SU/PSl\1/24/T6/MARCMarketing Communication3SU/PSM/24/T6/SUSFSustainability Finance3SU/PSM/24/T6/Enhancing Sustainability Using Al3
COURSE:
MASTER OF MANAGEMENT STUDIES -
BUSINESS FINANCE


SEMESTER-ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/PBF/24/S I/FAFinancial Accounting4CO/l'BF/24/S1/FIMfinancial Institutions & Markets2CO/PBF/24/S1/FMFinancial Managcmcnl4CO/PBF/23/S 1/FMTFundamentals of Management2CO/PBF/24/S 1/013Organizational 13ehaviour4CO/l'Bl'/24/S I/BEBusiness Economics (Micro & l'olicy Perspective)4CO/PBF/24/S1/BSQTBusiness Statistics & Quantililtive Techniques4CO/PBF/24/Sl/CLCorporate Laws4SEMESTER - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/PBf/24/S2/fSAfinancial Statement and Analysis2CO/PBF/24/S2/BCBusiness Communication2CO/Pl3F/24/S2/f3Snosiness Sustainability2CO/PBF/24/S2/CMACost & Management Accounting4CO/PBF/24/S2/SJ\PMSecurity Analysis & Portfolio Management4CO/PBF/24/S2/CFCorporate Finance2CO/PBF/24/82/BVBusiness Valuation2CO/PBF/24/S2/MJSManagement Information Systems2CO/PBF/24/S2/MDAMultivariate Data Analysis4SEMESTER -IDCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/PBF/23/83/BARPBusiness Analytics with R & Python4CO/PBF/23/S3/0FSOptions, Futures & Swaps4CO/PBF/22/S3/CTCorporate Taxation4CO/PBF/23/S3/BFBehavioral Finance2CO/PBF/23/S3/CBCommercial Banking4CO/PBF/23/S3/PPAFProject Planning, Appraisal and Finance4CO/PBF/23/S3/FMEFinancial Modelling Using Excel4
SEMESTER - rvCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/PBF/23/S4/CRCorporate Restructuring4CO/PBF/23/S4/FISFixed Income Securities2CO/PBF/23/S4/ALMAssets Liabilities Management2CO/PBF/23/S4/IFInternational Finance4CO/PBF/23/S4/RMRisk Management2CO/PBF/23/S4/TFMTreasury and Forex Management2CO/PBF/23/S4/IRMlosurance aod Risk Maoagemcnt2CO/PBF/2.3/S4/FSFinancial Service.s2CO/PBF/23/S4/BECGBusiness Ethics and Corporate Governance4
COURSE:
MA- MASS COMMUNICATION


Course CodeCourse NameCreditSEMESTER-ICM/PMC/25/S1/JMCOIntroduction to Media & Communication3CM/PMC/25/Sl/lAPRhmoduction to Adve11ising & Public Relations3CM/PMC/25/S1/CMTPCommunication Models, Theories & Practices3CM/PMC/25/Sl/JSJournalism Studies3CM/PMC/25/S1/DGSDesign & Graphic Studie,3CM/l'MC/25/Sl/AERI'Audio Engineering & Radio Production4CM/PMC/25/S1/DSPCDigiL1l Still Photography & Cinematography4SEMESTER - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCM/PMC/25/S2/MCORMedia & Communication Research4C.M/l'MC/25/S2/MLEMedia Law & Ethics,
JCM/PMC/25/S2/SMDNSocial Media & DigiL1l Networking3CM/PMC'J25/S2/WRMWriting for Media4CM/PMC/25/S2/MUGDMultimedia Grnphics & Designing3CM/PMC/25/S2/IVP'lelevision Production5CM/PMC/25/S2/DVEDigital Video Editing3CM/PMC/23/S2/SIPSummer1ntemship Program6SEMESTER -111 SPECIALISATION COURSESCourse CodeCourse NameCreditSpe.cialisation - I (ADVERTISING AND MARKETING COMMUNICATIONCM/PMC/24/S3/AMCAdvertising & Marketing Communication3CM/PMCJ24/S3/AABMAdvanced Advertising & Brand Management3CM/l'MC/24/S3/l'CAMPromotions & Campaigns,
JCM/l'MC/24/S3/EWAEtTective Writing for Advertisements4CM/PMC/24/S3/DADigital Advertising4

Specialisation - II (CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONSAND PUBLIC RELATIONS)C!VVPMC/24/S3/COCPCorporate Communication - Concepts& Practice3C!VVPMC/24/S3/0RMAOnline Reputation Management3CM/PMC/24/$3/CCPMCrisis Communication, PR & Media Relations3CM/PMC/24/S3/PRMCPublic Relations Management & Client Servicing4C!VVPMC/24/S3/EWPREITcctivc Writing for Public Relations4Specialisation - 111 (JOURNAUSM: PRINT & ELECTRONIC)CM/PMC/24/S3/COJOConvergence Journalism3CM/l'MC/24/S3/COSTCoveting Stories3C!VVPMC/24/S3/JELIJournalism Ethics & Legal issues3CM/PMC/24/S3/RWReporting and Writing4CM/PMC/24/S3/0RAEOnline Reporting, Anchoring & Editing4Common CourseC!VVPMC/24/S3/EDCOEnvironment & Development Communication3CM/PMC/24/S3/DISSDissertation6SEMESTER - IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCM/lJl\,IC/23/S6/FIFinal Internship12CM/UMC/23/S6/CPCapstone Project6CM/PMC'/24/S4/CSComprehensive Studies3
COURSE:
MBA- PUBLIC POLICY AND MANAGEMENT



TERM -1Course CodeCourse NameCreditGP/PPM/25fTI/FREAFinancial Repo1ting and Analysis2Gl'/l'PM/25ffl/MSCOManagerial Skills and Communicarion3GP/PPM/25/T1/QTECQuantiL1livc Techniques3GP/PPM/25/TI/MAECManagerial f.conomics3GP/PPM/25/T1/MDEMManagerial Analysis and Decision Modelling3Gl'/J>PlvV25/fl/PGSOPolitics, Government and Society, ,GP/PPM/25/Tl/MEFPMoral and Ethical Foundations of Public Policy2GP/PPM/25/T1/IPMAIntroducLioo Lo PolicyMaking2TERM-IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/PPM/25/T2/0PMAOperations ManagcmcnL3OP/PPM/25fT2/0BPLOrganizational Behaviour and Public Leadership3Gl'/l'PM/25fl.2/HRMAHuman Resource Management2GJ>/PJ>lvV25/T2/MPPSMarketing for Public Policy and Services, ,GP/PPM/25tT2nCI.AIndian Constitution, Law and Administration3GP/PPM/25/T2/PUPIPublic Institutions and Policy Implementation3GP/PPM/25fT2/LGIPLocal Government Immersion Programme4TERM - IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/PPM/25/T3/FIMAFinancial Management3GP/PP/vV25/T3/SUMASustainability Management (including Reporting &Compliance)2GP/PPM/25/T3/CSRECorporate Social Responsibility2GP/PPM/25/T3nRIOInternational Relations and International Organizations3GP/l'PM/25/T3/PUPAPublic Policy Analysis3GP/l'PM/25ff3/SRMESocial Research Methods, ,GP/PPlvl/25/T3/NCPPNegotiation and Communication for Public Policy2GP/PPlvl/25/T3/POWRPolicy Writing2

TERM-IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/PPM/25/T4/PRMAProject Manageme.nt2GP/l'Plvl/2Sn4/SMPPStrntegic Management and Public Policy,
>GP/PPM/25/T4/MISDManagement Information Systems and Digital Governance (Core Elective)2GP/PPM/25/T4/SMCPStakeholder Management and Community Participation (Core Elective)2GP/PPM/2Sff4/NGNMNetworkGovernance and Non -Profit Management (Core Elective)2GP/PPM/25/T4/EBDMEvidence based Decision Making (Core Elective)2GP/PPM/25/T4/MCPPManagement Consulting for Public Policy (Core Elective)2Gl'/l'l'M/25/14/HJUSHuman Rights andJustice SeminarITERM-VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/PPM/25/TS/INFIIntcmational Finance (Elective)2Gl'/l'l'M/25/rS/FOOOFiscal L>ecentrnlization and Governance (J::lecrive)2GP/PPM/25/TS/GR.MAGeopolitical Risk Management (Elective)2OP/PPM/25fT5/0AAUGovernment Accounting and Audit (Elecrive)3GP/PPM/25/TS/PICMPolicy Innovation and Change Managcmcot (Core Elective)2OP/PPM/25fT5fTQMPTotal Quality Management for Public Services (Core Elective)1.5GP/PPM/25/TS/AIMLArtificial Intelligence and Machine Learning for Policy Management (Core Elective)1.5TERM-VICoul'$e CodeCourse NameCreditGP/PPM/25fT6/FHDSFinancing Human Development andSocial Sector Policy (Elecrive)2GP/PPM/25/T6/PPPPPrivatisationand Public-Private Partnerships (Elective)2GP/PPM/25fT6/STPGSystems TI1inking in Public Governance (Core Elecrive)2GP/PPM/25/T6/GTPMGameTheory for Policy Management (Elcclive)2GP/PPM/25fT6/CAPRCapstone Project3
COURSE:
MASTER IN PUBLIC POLICY AND GOVERNANCE



SEMESTER -1Course CodeCourse NameCreditGP/PPG/24/S I/TDTheo1ies of Development3GP/PPG/24/S1/SRMSocial Research Methods (Qual & Quant)4GP/PPG/24/S I/QTQuantitative Tecluuques4GP/PPG/24/S1/PFPPPhilosophical Foundations of Public Policy4GP/PPG/24/S1/MTPPMicroeconomic Theory and Public Policy3GP/PP0/24/S1/IPMAIntroduction to Policy Making3GP/PPG/24/S I/APMAccounting for Policy Making3SEMESTER - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/PPG/24/S2/PPAFPublic Policy Analysis Framework4GP/PP0/24/S2/POWRPolicy Writing3GP/PPG/24/S2/PFMPublic Finance Management3GP/PP0/24/S2/MPPMacroeconomics for Public Policy3GP/PPG/24/S2/LGIPLocal Govemment Inunersion Programme (Field Project)GP/PPG/24/S2/ODPLOrganizational Dehaviour and Public Leadership4GP/PP0/24/S2/ICLAIndian Constitution, Law, and Administration4GP/PPG/24/S2/SIPSummer Internship Project6SEMESTER - IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/PPG3/23/S3/MIDGManagement Information Systems and Digital Govemance.GP/PPG3/23/S3/MPPSMarkcling lor Public Policy andServices4GP/PPG/23/S3/HRJHuman Rights and Justice3GP/PPG/23/S3/NCNegotiation and Communication in Public Policy Context,GP/PPG3/23/S3/PMPIPublic Management and Policy In1plementation4GP/PPG3/23/S3/CSOCivil Society Organizations: Stmcture, Function and Role in Public Policy Making
4SEMESTER - IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/PPG/23/S4/IOPPInternational Organizations and Public Policy3GP/PPG/23/S4/SMGSustainability Management and Governance4GP/PPG/23/S4/SMPPStrategic Management and Public Policy3GP/PPG/23/S4/DISSDissertation8GP/PPG/23/S4/POLAPolicy Lab6
     COURSE: M.Sc. - ECONOMICS



SEMESTER ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/PEC/25/SI/STSMStatistical methods6EC/PEC/25/SI/MMEMathematical methods in economics6EC/PEC/25/SI/MIEIMicroeconomics I6EC/PEC/25/Sl/MAElMacroeconomics I6SEMF.STF.R TTCourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/PEC/25/S2/ETRXEconometrics6EC/PEC/25/S2/FlMAFinancial mathematics6EC/PEC/25/S2/MAE2Macroeconomics II6EC/PEC/25/S2/IVIJE2Microccooomics II6SEMESTER IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/PEC/24/S3/FIECFinancial cconomcLrics6EC/PEC/24/S3/CORFCorpmate finance6EC/I'EC:/24/S3/lNFlInternational finance6SEMESTER IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditECIPEC/24/S4/BENDBehavioral economic. and neuroeconomics for decision making6:C/PEC/22/S4/FEMEFinancial economics+moneta,y economics3+3ECIPEC/24/S4/DAData analytics with python6EC/PEC/24/S4/RMDERisk management+derivatives3+3EC/PEC:/24/S4/MBTMMoney banking and treasury management6EC/PEC/24/S4/0lSSIDissertationNoCredit
COURSE	L.L.M





SEMESTER - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/PLN25/$1/LRMELegal Research Methodology3LW/PLN25/SI/COPLComparative Public Law3LW/PLA/25/S 1/JUPRJudicial Process3LW/PLA/25/S1/IPRIIntellectual Prope11y Rights3LW/PLA/25/S 1/BINLBanking and Insurance Law2LW/PLN25/SI/PCLCPrinciples of CorporJtion Law & Corporate Governance2LW/PLN25/SI/PCRLPrinciples of Criminal Law3LW/PLN25/SI/LSEOLaw Relating to Socio -Economic om.:ncc2LW/PLN25/SI/PVCDPrivilcg<..-<lClass Deviance2LW/PLN25/SI/CYCRCybcrCrime2LW/PLA/25/S1/fSCIForensic Science-& Criminal luvesligation2LW/PLA/25/Sl/NDICNew Dimensions in lndinu Co11s1ituliooal Law and its
Challeo,;tes3I.W/PI.A/25/Sl/COCLComparative Constitut.iooal I .aw2I.W/PI.A/25/$1/CRCGCentre.-Srnte-l{efations and Constitutional Governance.2LW/f'LA/25/S I/Ci.TC()Gende.r Justice and Constitution2LW/PLA/25/S I/FCORForms of Com:tirutional Gove.nunent and Rule.of law2SEMESTER·  TTCourse.CodeCourse NameCreditL\V/PLN25/S2/LJOWLaw & Justice in a Globalizcd World3LW/PLA/25/S2/DISSDissertation4LW/PLA/25/S2/JTLAInternational Tratle Law3LW/PLN25/S2/EILAE-Commcroc, IT L,iw & Al3LW/PLN25/S2/ICARInternational Commercial Arbitrnlion2LW/PLN25/S2/LLERLabour lnw & Employment Relations2LW/PLA/25/S2/CCJACriminology & Criminal Justice Administration3LW/PLA/25/S2/PEVIPenology & Victimology3LW/pLA/25/$2/CRPSCriminal Psychology2LW/PLA/25/S2/DCI IRDn.1g Addiction, Criminal Justic-e and 1luman RightS2LW/PLA/25/$2/AICLAl & Criminal Law2LW/PLA/25/S2/CWCCCorporate & White -Collar Crimes2LW/PLA/25/S2/JHUTnternational Human Rights Law and Justice.3LW/PLA/25/$2/CCPLConstitutional Clairns and Contemporary Tssues under Personal
laws3LW/PLA/25/S2/MLAWMedia Law2LW/PLN25/S2/PNSCPluralism, National Security and Constitutionalism2LW/PLN25/S2/ADERAnti Defecrion Law and Electoral Refonns in Democratic Process2
COURSE:
M.Sc. - PSYCHOLOGY



TERM-ICourse Code.Course NameCreditLA/PPY/25/S J/CNEUCognitive Neuroscience4LA/PPY/25/Slff PWPTheories of Personality: Wcs1.em Perspc.:tivcs4LA/PPY/25/SI/ASBSAdvanced Statistics in Behavioural Sciences4LA/PPY/25/SI/APSPApplied Social Psychology3LA/PPY/25/SI/LPSYLifespan Psychology3LA/PPY/25/SI/AJPSArtificial Intelligence and Psychology2LA/PPY/25/S1/PRACIPractical - I6TERM -11Course CodeCourse NameCreditLA/PPY/25/S2/TPEPTI1cories of Personality: Eastern Perspectives2LA/PPY/25/S2/PSPAPsychopathology4LNPPY/25/S2/PCTDPsychometry and Clinical Tool Development4LA/PPY/25/S2/FOCOFoundation for Counselling2LA/PPY/25/S2/BEMOBehaviour Modification2LA/PPY/25/S2/CACOCareer Counselling2LA/l'l'Y/25/S2/W!'COWorkplace Counselling2LA/PPY/25/S2/COESCounselling in Educational Settings4LA/PPY/25/S2/PRAC2Practical - II6
COURSE:
M.Tech. - COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING



SEMESTER- ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCS/PCS/25/S 1/SFDSStatistical Foundations for Data Science5CS/PCS/25/S1/PRDSProgramming for Data Science5CS/PCS/25/S1/DMDWData Mining & Data Warehousing5CS/PCS/25/S1/AIAPArtificial Intelligence and Annlications5CS/PCS/25/S1/ADSAAdvanced Data Structures and Algorithm5SEMESTER-2Course CodeCourse NameCreditCS/PCS/25/S2/LAOPLinear Algebra and Optimization5CS/J>CS/25/S2/MLEAMachine Leaming5Elective I5Elective II5CS/PCS/25/S2/CAPRCapstone Project' _,CS/PCS/25/S2/RESEResearch Seminar2SEMESTER- 3Course CodeCourse Nao1eCreditCS/PCS/25/S3/ANDLArtificial Neurnl Network and Deer Leaming5Elective Ill5Elective IV5Elective\/5CS/l'CS/25/S3fl'HJ:::S IThesis -Part I5
SEMESTER-4Course CodeCourse NameCreditCS/PCS/25/S4(rHES2Thesis -Pm1 II15Elective ListCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCS/PCS/25/S2/NLAPNatural Language-Processing5CS/PCS/25/S2/CVIPComputer Vision and Image Processing5CS/PCS/25/S2/INREInformation Retrieval5CS/l'CS/25/S2/PAREPattern Recognition5CS/PCS/25/S2/MVDAMultivariate Data Analysis5CS/PCS/25/S2/BDAABusiness Data Analysis5CS/PCS/25/S2/FDAAFinancial Dala Analysis5CS/PCS/25/S3/DDAADig Data Analytics5CS/PCS/25/S3/CYNSC1yptography and Network Security5CS/l'CS/25/S3/CLCOCloud Computing5CS/PCS/25/S3/INTHIn1cmct of Things5CS/PCS/25/S3/BCTEDlockchain Technology5CS/PCS/25/S3/SMMISocial Media Mining5



























































96




















UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMME (UG)

SECTION-1


1. PROGRAMl\'lE OVERVIEW
All the UG Programmes of XI M University are full-time/ regular in nature. Regular classes happen inside the campus. However, if a force majeure event such as typhoon, cyclone, epidemic, pandemic or any other act of God which cannot be foreseen, the classesand examinations may happenin on-line orhybrid mode.
All UG programmes have their unique course structure, a student admitted to a particular program need to attain a minimum pass mark to successfully complete the programme.
Acourse in the UG Programmes may beof two tosix credits. Onecredit isequivalent to
10 teaching/contact hours. In most cases any course will have 4-5 scheduled sessions/classes per week. Exceptions are made to accommodate visiting faculty or otherexigencies.
SEMESTER SYSTEJ\1
All Undergraduate Programmes of the XIM University follow thesemester system.The semester system has six semesters in three years except B.Tech. (Hons.) Computer Science & Engineering with eight semesters, D.A. LL. D (Hons.) and D.D.A. LL. D (Hons.) with tensemesters i.e., two ineachyear.
2. ACADEMIC PROGRAMME DETAILS
The University offers the following undergraduate programmes.


SI.
No.
Academic
Programmes
Schools
Academic
Year Program Duration I Total
Credits
Academic
YearProgram Duration/ Total
Credits
IBA (Hons.) Public
Administration& GovernanceSchool of Governance and PublicAffairs
2025-283 Years/
154
2025-294 Years/
171
2B.Sc. (Hons.)
Environmental Science I B.Sc. (Hons.) Sustainable
Develooment
School of Sustainability
2025-28
3 Years/
144
2025-29
4 Years/
1713B.Sc. (Hons.) EconomicsSchool of Economics2025-283 Years/
1482025-294 Ye.ars/
171
4B.Sc. (Hons).Mass
Communica1ion / B.Sc. (Hons).Media Studie{;School of Communica1ions
2025-283 Years/
148
2025-294 Years/
171
5B.Com. (lions.) Accouming/ Finance
School of Commerce
2025-28
3 Years/
160
2025-29
4 Years/
1716B.B.M (Hons.)
HR/Marketing7B.A. English (Hons.)School of Liberal
ArlS
2025-283 Years/
148
2025-294 Years/
1718B.Sc. Psychology
(Hons.)
9B.Tech. (Mons.) Computer Science &
EngineeringSchool of Computer
Science and Engineering
202>294 Years/
188
2025-294 Years/
18810B.A.LL.B (Hons.)Xavier Law School2025-305 Years/
2802025-305 Years/
280IIB.B.A.LLB(Mons.)
3. REGISTRATION
3. l  St.udents are required to register in personon theday ea1marked for registrat.ion as per theadmissioncallletterand thereafteron the firstday of each subsequent semester as indicated in theAcademic Calendar.
3.2 A notice will be put up by the Dean's Office for verification of the original certificates. In case original certificates arc not available at the time of verification, provisionalcertificates will haveto be shown.
3.3 The students, who could not submit their final year +2 mark-sheets from their respective universities on theday of the verification, should submit them latest by the day or registration of Semester, failing which a student's registration may be cancel led.
3.4 In exceptional circumstances, the last date for submission of certificates in suppo11of the qualifying degreecan beextended by the DeanAcademics for an appropriate period inconsultation with the Registrar.
3.5 Those who fail 10 register for each semester aller joining the programme on the specified date as per the calendar will be deemed to have left the programme unless prior permission is obtained from the Dean Academics. If the Dean permits, a student can register by paying a late registration fee of 500/- (rupees five hundred) per day after the due date subject to a maximum allowance of IO days for late registration. The late registration fee is payable irrespective of the reasons or circumstances for the delay in seeking registration.

3.6 The Registration of a student will remain valid for a period of 5 years including the Academic Year in which registration was granted for all UG programmes except for B.Tech and LLB, where the validity will be for a period of 6 and 7 years respectively.
3.7 Registration number of a student will remain unchanged for theentireduration of theprogramme.
3.8 Re-admission: Any student who hasdiscontinued his/herstudies formore than 2 consecutive semesters due to prior approved reasons can seek re-admission with theapproval of the Vice-Chancellorof the University.
4. SCHOLARSHIP
GUIDELINES FOR UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS SCHOLARSHIP INTRODUCTION:
XI M University is a Jesuit University, which came into being with the passing of Odisha (Amendment) Act 2021 in the Odisha Legislative Assembly on 11'"May 2021, renaming Xavier University as XIM UnivcrsitJ. ln keeping with its Vision, Mission and Objectives, XIM University, offers scholarships to provide financial assistance to meritorious, ST, SC, and Economically Backward/Minority students to meet their educational expense. This scheme is being implemented from the academic year2023- 24 for the undergraduate students.
A. SCOPE:
The scholarships will be awarded to the students who, on completion of their respective Plus Two Board Examinations, have applied and have been selected for an undergraduate coursein the university in theacademic year2025-26.
B. ELIGIBILITY:
Category A- MeritScholarship:
Students with 90% marks (for core subjects, refer Annex III) in 12th Doard Examination or equivalent will be provided scholarship worth 30% of the course/tuition fee only for !st year. This offer will be continued only if the student secures a minimum CGPA of 8.5 (without any back paper) in each of the subsequent yearofthe study at the University.
Category B-Scholarship for the SC, ST, Economically \.Veaker Section/ Minorit)' Students:
Three students, one each belonging to each of these categories, will be awarded scholarship worth 30% of the course/tuition fee only in thefirst year of thestudy in the university. Thisoffer will becontinued only if thestudent secures a minimum CGPAof
7.5 (without any back paper) in each of the subsequent years of the study at the University. The numberof such scholarship sanctioned for theaforesaid categories are as follows:

CourseSCSTE\VS/MinorityB.Cotn.II1B.B.MII1B.Sc. -SD/EVSIIIB.Tcch. -CSEIIIBA-LLBII1BBA -LLBII1B.Sc. -MC/ MS111B.Sc. -Eco111B.A -PAGIIIB.Sc.-PyschologyIIIB.A -EnglishIII

Category C - Merit scholarship for the topper of the batch:
This scholarship, wo1th 30% of thecomsc/tuition fee, is given to thetopper (highest CGPA) of each of theundergraduate programs of theuniversity in thesubsequent academic year.
C. PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION AND A\VARD OF SCHOLARSHIP:
C. I   A scholarship application will be invited every year.
C.2 XIM University Scholarship Portal (XUSP) at xim.edu.in will be opened for online application in the month of December, i.e., from 1st December to 3!st December 2024.
C.3 All applicants must submit the online application fonn, with the following documents:
• Academic Records (I 2thStandard/ Equivalent)
• Identity Proof
• Aadhar Card
• Recent Photograph
• Signature
• Medical Fitness Certificate
• Valid Caste Certificate/E-Ce,tificate issued bytheTahsildar (ifapplying through Category B)
• lncome Certificate issued by State Government /Income Tax Return (if applying through Category B)*
*To be eligible for this scholarship, the annual family income of the applicant's parent/guardian from all sources in case of ST/SC/EBW/Minority should not exceed Rs. 2,50,000/-per annum.

C.4 The hardeopy of the application form along with the photocopies of the credentials need to be submitted by the students (within the stipulated deadline) to the office of the respective Academic Deans of Schools. These documents will be checked and verified (against the original documents) by the respective offices of the Academic Deans. The applicant should affix a recent passport sized photograph to the application form. Applicants must submit a medical fitness certificate in the prescribed fonnat signed by a physician attesting that the applicant is medically fit for his/her study al lhe XlM University.
C.5 Applications that fail to meet thcdcadlinc, requirements orarcincomplete, will berejected.
C.6 The scholarship committee will review only completed applications endorsed bytheDean of Schools.
C.7 The scholarship committee will prepare a list of students likely to be eligible for scholarship.
C.8 For those who are applying through Category B, the income of their parents willbe taken intoaccount beforepreparing thelist.
C.9 All applicants will be notified about the status of their scholarship through official email in due course. The list of successful students, awarded scholarship, will be published on the website as well as on the University's notice board.
C.10 The candidates will confirm whether to accept the scholarship or not within 7 days of receiving the mail. Thecandidates from whom replies are not received within 7 daysoffhcnotification will not beconsidered for scholarship.
C. II  The candidates who confirm the acceptance of Scholarship have to send the 'Statement of Particulars' form to thescholarship commillee.
C.12 Scholarship will be disbursed to the selected students by way ofa chcquc/c­ transfcr based on the name, address for communication and details of bank account of the student in which the scholarship is to be paid, furnished by the student inthe'Statement of Particulars' form.
C.13 Incaseof any ambiguity aboutapplicant's eligibility, s/hecan contact theoffice of therespective Academic Dean of theSchoolsforclarification.
D. DURATION OF SCHOLARSHIPS AND ITS RENEV.1AL:
D. l  A scholarshiJ) under the scheme is renewable from year to year till the completion of theprogram based on the following tem,sand conditions:
D.2 AScholarship Renewal application must besubmitted bythesn1dent each year, based ontheiracademic performance, as outlined in theeligibility criteria.
D.3 Student must maintain a minimum CGPAof8.5 for Category A, CGPA7.5 for

Category B, highest CGPA forCategory C andabidebythescholarship policy.
D.4 Astudent iseligibleonly foronescholarship underanyone of thecategories.
D.5 Except in the first year, the grant of scholarship will also be subject to the adherence of Manual of Policies (MoP) of the school and rules and regulation of the University and with an attendance of at least 75% by the student (without any back paper),during thepreceding year.
D.6 Complaints against thestudents regarding indiscipline would lead to forfeiture of scholarship.
D.7 If the student is unable to appear in the annual examination owing to illness and/orany unforeseen event, theaward of scholarship may be renewed for the next academic year on submission of medical documents (te.st reports, prescriptions, medical admission/discharge certificate and fitness certificate issued by registered hospital/practitioner). In such cases, student's eligibility for theaward/renewalof scholarship will bebased ontheMoP.Thedecision of theScholarship Committee shall befinal and bindingin this regard.
E. REVOCATION OFSCHOLARSHIP:
Award ofthcscholarshipwillhecancelled forthe following reasons:
E. l  A Student has furnished falsedata/statements while applying for theaward of Scholarship.
F..2 A Student is suspended (or under Scholastic Probation) or facing any disciplinary action due to his/her conduct or deferred decision due to poor academic performance (as mentioned in MoP).
E.3 If it is determined that it will be impossible for a student to complete thecourse within thestandard period of study because of suspension or absence from the University.
E.4 A student has received another scholarship from an institution/entity outside the University.
E.5 If the student joins another program without obtaining approval from the Academic Dean during theperiod of thescholarship.
E.6 Good conduct and regularity in attendance as mentioned above are also required forcontinuance of thescholarship.
In case of non-compliance to any of the above-mentioned terms and

conditions, the student will have to refund the scholarship amount received and shall not be eligible for any scholarship in future. The decision of the Scholarship Committee will be final and binding in all such matters. Scholarship oncecancelled will not berevived under any circumstances.
S.	FEES
5.1 The fees of the school are usually announced in the Admission Bulletin or Admissions Offer letters. However, thefeestructure is liable to changes as and when necessary, through appropriate notification. Fees for each year must be paid bythedue datespecified in the Academic Calendar. A late payment fee of 500/- perday is charged in caseof a payment made aftertheduedatesubject to a totalof maximum of5,000/-.
5.2 Penally forDefault in Payment off ees:
Astudent will not beallowed to rcgistcrforthcscmcstcr ifs/hc has notpaid the fees. No certificate of any kind or Degree will be issued to a sntdcnt who has not cleared his/her dues. A No Dues Certificate (NOC) form can be obtained from the Accounts Office and the clearance is to be obtained in written endorsement thereupon, from Library, Mess I Canteen, Reception, Accounts. The duly completed NOC is to be submitted to the Dean's Office before the student leaves the Campus after the completion of the sixth semester examinations. (Now generated over UMS to ease the process of collecting NDC).
6. CURRICULUM DESIGN
The course curriculum has been designed by a group of experienced academicians as per the guidelines ofNEP/UGC/AlCTE/BCI. The University may change/modify the coursecurriculum losuit thecontemporary requirement.
7. PEDAGOGY
Teaching methodology consists of lecture inputs, exercises, cases, presentations, dissertation-work,term papers, etc. Each instrnctor uses a mixof methodologies to suit the requirements of the course. Students in a course are likewise evaluated in various components, viz. quiz, mid-seme-st.er examination, end-semester examination, cases, and other assigmnenlS. On thecommencement of each semester, the Course Outlines are given lo thestudents, speciiying lheconlenls of thecourse, the methodology and the norms for evaluation. The students may, however, check with the instructor if these detaiIsare notspecified.
8. ONLINE/DIGITAL PEDAGOGY
8.1.1 The classes, assessments and examinations are held inside the university campus in therespective schools through physical mode. However, if situation so demands the classes and theexaminations shall be held in theonline/digital mode.

8.1.2 Under special circumstances XIM University provides the online classroom and all related materials and assessments solely for your educational purposes, subject to the following terms and conditions and the sole discretion of the University. The University may modify these tem1s and conditions at any time by updating the Termsof Use before thestart ofa term.
8.1.3 Youraccess to theonlineacademic class/ exam is for youruseonly tocomplete your course requirements. Any use of the on line secured site notrelated to the fulfillment of class responsibilities and deliverables is prohibited, your credentials (login ID and password) for access to the online class/ exam/ University Management System (UMS) should not be shared with anyone for any reason. Inno event will XIM University be liable to you for any incidental, indirect,special, orconsequential damages arising out of your useor improper use of credentials, or the materials provided. All the materials provided to you in the form of soft copy / e-copy are subject ownership of Unjversity's copyright. Infringement of these norms will follow academic review or disciplinary action.
8.1.4 In the online/digital mode the students are required to attend the classes/academic sessions and appear in the examinations by enabling the videos and when it is required, they need to be in the position to enable the audio(As instructed by the Faculty/ Instructor).
Tips for taking onlineclasses.
a. Treat an onlineclass likea "real" face tofaceclass.
b. Hold yourself accountable for any meansofdist.urbancein the classor exam.
c. Practice time management.
d. Eliminate distractions.
e. Actively participate.
f. Do notabusethechat box.
g. Leverage your network.
h. Remember, ifit isonthe internet,it is everywhere.
1.	Respect others' privacy
J.	Do not spam.
k.	Respect the teachingguidelines framed by the University.
9. CLASSTIMINGS
All Classes will be held between 9:30A.M& 5:00 P.M from Monday through Saturday.

10. ATTENDANCE
I0.1 The university attaches great importance to punctuality and regular attendance of all classsessions. Sn1dents are required to attend a minimum of 75% of classes in all individual courses. Theguidelines mentioned below will be followed in all courses.
I0.2  The final grade assigned to them takes intoaccount their class participation. It is, therefore, advised that the students, in their own interest, should not miss any class.
I0.3  Written attendance record is taken in each class, or through the University Management System (UMS).
I0.4 Absence without prior permission/intimation for leave from the Dean is considered to be a serious breach of discipline, and the student is liable for appropriate disciplinary action, besides reduction in grade points and or debarment from theendsemester examination.
I0.5  Exemption from attending classes is not permissible for reasons other than personal physical illness,gravepersonal tragedyand university official work. Theprovision of25%absence is only to accommodate these reasons ONLY.
I0.6  A student shall not be allowed to appear in theend-semester examination in those courses where S/he has short.age of allendance below 75%. Attendance record shall be compiled at the time of mid-semester and end-semester examinations andthesameshall be in formed to all students andtheir parents.
10.7  Any student failing to attend theend semester examination due to sho1tfall of attendance will have to appear for thecourse in the same numbered semester next year with the junior batch. Final semester students will therefore not be able tograduate with their batch.
11. ELIGIBILITYTOAPPEAR FOR ENOSEMESTER EXAMINATION
11.1 A candidate shall be required to attend at least 75% of the class sessions in each of thecourse classes taken separately to be cligible toappear for theend semesterexamination fora course.
11.2 Please read Section IOabove.
12. LEAVE OF ABSENCE
12.1 For any leave as mentioned in section I0.5, the student shall have to seek and obtain prior permission from the Dean.Such leave of absence may begranted by the Dean on application along with documentary evidences. Any other typesofleaves may berejected bytheDean upon hissolediscretion.
12.2 The application may be addresse-d lo the Dean afler obtaining views of the concerned faculty by thestudent. Faculties are not responsible for any student losinganysegment of evaluation on account ofleave availed byhim/her with prior permission, and the make-up of class tests, which are missed-out due to

such absence is leftentirely to thediscretion of thefaculty.
12.3 Students missing classes due to health reasons are required to produce valid medical certificate along with doctor's prescription and original GST bill for the medicines purchased, GST bills for any medical tests and a Medical Certificate of fitness while joining back.
13. COMPONENTSOFEVALUATION
Each course will havefollowingevaluation components:

SL. NO.COMPONENTSSUGGESTED WEIGHTAGEIQuiz20%2AssignmentIO%3Mid-Semester ex.am30%4End- Semester examH>%
13.1 The above components are suggestive in nature and the concerned faculty has the discretion to make changes as may be suitable for a particular course. However, the component of end-semester examination shall not be less than 40%.
13.2 Project work/ Dissertation/ Practical will also be a component for award of final degree to a student. The evaluation of tbese courses will not have above components.
13.3 The decision of the Dean regarding segment of evaluation of a paper will be final. A student who needs clarification on his or her grades may discuss with theconcerned faculty/ Dean and Dean's office within a week of receiving the grades.
13.4 Faculty will give focdback to students periodically on their performance through written comments onanswersheets or through individual meetings.
6. TION AND DECLARATION OF RESULTS
14.1  Publication ofresult: The final semester examination of each programme will bepublished within 30 daysof thecompletion of theexamination or as decided by theCOE.
14.2  Pass Mark: A student must secure minimum grade point of 5 (equivalent to Lettergrade - C) inindividual papers to passa semester except in XLS which is governed bytheBar council oflndia. Thepass mark forXLS will be as per the guidelines of Bar Council oflndia.
14.3 SGPA (Semester Grade Point Average) -A student must secure minimum SGPAofS inorder to pass ina semester.
14.4  COPA (Cumulative Grade Point Average)-A student must secure minimum CGPAof5 in order tograduate in a Programme.

14.5  Award of Honours: A student must secure minimum grade poiot of 5.5 in aggregate in Core Courses and Discipline Specific Electives subjects to be awarded Honours in a particular stream. However, theoame of the courses to be taken for award of Honours will be notified to the students by the Dean's office.The honoursdegree for theschool of computerscience andengineering will be awarded to the students who satisfactorily complete the prescribed academic requirements.
14.6  Ranks and Medals: Ranks and medals will beonly awarded to thosestudents who have passed the entire course in the first attempt.. A student securing highest COPA shall be awarded gold medal. However, only those candidates who have passed each semester examination in thefirst attempt only shall be eligible for award of ranks. But for this, the student must have secured at least a COPA of 7. There can bejoint winners if two students secure same highest percentage of marks.
14.7  Conversion of COPA into percentage: The final COPA can be converted to percentage by the following method: (CGPA • 0.5) x JO excepting for B.A. (Law) and BBJ\ (Law) and B.Tech (Hons) in Computer Science & Engineering. For these Programmes the percentage will be calculated by multiplying theCGPA with I0).
14.8  A student who has not secured an aggregate ofSGPA of5 in a semester shall have to repeat theentire semester with thejunior batch. However, if s/hc has secured more than 6 Grade point in a particular paper then s/he will be exempted for re-appearing in that paper though s/he has failed to secure the aggregate in a semester.
14.9		Degree Requirement• J\ candidate will be eligible for award of degree ifhc satisfies A LLthefollowing:
1.	S/he has no course or paper in which an end-semester or any evaluation component ispending.
11.	S/he should have good conduct in and outside the University during the period of study
111.  S/he does not have any University Disciplinary Commiuee process pending against him/her
7. DING AND COMPUTATION OF SGPA & CGPA
All the undergraduate programs under XIM University follow a grading pattern in compliance with CBSCstructure ofUOCexpect BA/ BBALLB(Hons).
Grading pattern of courses offered in B. Com, BBM, B.Sc. and BA program:
Lellcr
Grade0
(Outstanding)A+
(Excellent)A
(Very
Good)B+
(Good)B
(Above
Average)C
(Average)p
(Pass)F
(Fail)  Ab (Absent)Grade Point1098765400
Grading pattern of courses offered in B.Tech Program:

Letter Grade0A+AB+BCFGrade Point10987650Range9.0- 10.080-8.997.0- 7.996.0-6.995.0-5.994.0-4.990-3.99
i. Method of Computation ofScmcst.crGradcPointAveragc (SGPA)
The SGPA is the ratio of sum of the product of the number of credits with the grade points scored by a student in all the courses taken by a student and the sum of the number ofcredits of all thecourses undergone by a student, i.e.
SGPA(Si)= E(CixGi)/ECi
Where Ci is the number of credits of the course and Gi is the grade point scored by the student in thecourse.
The SGPA and COPA shall be rounded off to 2 decimal points and reported in the transcripts.
ii. !Vlethod of Computation of Cumulative Grade PointAverage (CGPA)
The CGPA is also calculated in the same manner taking into account all the courses undergone byasn1dent overall thesemesters ofa programme, i.e. CGPA=(Cix/Ci)

COURSESCREDITGRADE POINTCREDIT POINT (CREDIT X GRADE)Course I383x8-24Course 2474x7=28Course 3363x6-18Course 43103xl0=30Course 5'..,53x5=15Course 6464x6=24Total2042139
Where Si is the SGPA of the semester and Ci is the total number of credits in that semester. The SGPA  and CGPA shall be rounded off to 2 decimal points and reported in the transcripts.
Illustration of Computation ofSGPA and CGPA and Format for Transcripts Illustration for SGPA
Thus,SGPA=139/20=6.95
Illustration for CGPA

Semester ISemester 2Semester 3Semester 4Semester
5Semester 6Credit: 20Credit: 22Credit: 25Credit: 26.:redit: 26.:redit: 25SGPA: 6.9SGPA:7.8SGPA:5.6SGPA:6.0SGPA: 6.3SGPA:8.0Thus,CGPA=(20x6.9)+(22x7.8)+(25x5.6)+(26x6.0)+(26x6.3)+(25x8.0)  =  6.73
144

iii. Supplementary Examinations
I. Ifastudent is marked 'absent' in anyexamination, then such a student shall haveto appear in that paper(s) in a later semester for declaration of her/ his result. The semester or final result will not be declared for a student who has remained absent (including those who have been debarred) in any of the papers in the end-semester examination. TheCourse willbe marked as Incomplete "I".
2. Supplementary examination will be conducted with the approval of the Dean in case of grave personal tragedy or hospitalization of the smdcnt.The sn1dcnt has to approach the Controller of Examinations for conduct of Supplementary Examination after it has been approved by the Dean of the school. The Supplementary examination will beconducted only for theEnd Tem1Examination that thestudenthas notbeenable toappeardue to theabove mentioned reasons.The Supplementary examination will be taken in the next available semester in the same year. However, if the total attendance of the student for reasons mentioned here fall below 75% or the student has been debarred for appearing an End Term examination due to orderof any University authority etc., the student shall have to take theSupplementary Examination with thejunior batch in thenextyear.
3. The student shall get only one chance to appear for the Supplementary Examination, except in thefirst year of the program wherein a student may appear for first Supplementary examination and in case of scoring a Fail grade (F), may apply to theDean and appear for theSecond Supplementary Exam.Students in 2nd year and above will howeverget onlyone attempt forSupplementary examination. If a student misses the chance of appearing in a Supplementary Examination, no further chances shall be available to the student and the last available score and gradeshall remain for the transcript.

4. In all examinations where a student is repeating a paper, his/ her latest mark will be considered and theearlierscored marks, ifany, will stand vacated and cancelled.
5. The Supplementary examination will beconducted in the nextSemester/Trimester. Upon failing in theSupplementary Examination, a student will be required torepeat theSemester next academic year with the junior batchand proceed in the program.
6. It is the sole responsibility of the student having back papers to contact the Dean's office as well as the Controller of Examinations office to register for the supplementary examination and appear the Supplementary Examination to be informed by theoffice of the Control!er ofExaminations.
7. Astudent has to register and appear in the supplementary examination within one month of the publication of result by paying the prescribed fees which is Rs. I000 per supplementary examination paper.
8. Special examination may also be conducted only with the approval of Vice­ Chancellor when there is a mass poor pe1formance in a particular paper/course in program.
9. Re-admission: Any student who has discontinued his/her studies for any reasons whatsoever and with pre-approved permission for more than 2 consecutive semesters cannot seek re-admission in the program in which the batch in which he registered. However, under extraordinary cases such students may be allowed readmission with the approvalof Registrar. Appellate Authority-Not withstanding what has been stated in this rule, the Vice Chancellor, XI M University is the appellate authority for all matters.
iv. Admission toHigher Class and Semester
I. A student who has secured the required percentage of grades in the lower semester will bepromoted to the next higher class/semester.
2. Astudent will not bepromoted to a 3rd semester (2nd Year) ifS/he has 4 back papers including debarred papers in 1stand 2nd Semester.
3. Astudent will not be promoted lo a 5th Semester (3rd Year) ifS/he has4 back papers debarred papersin 3rdand 4th Semester.
4. A student will not be promoted to 7th Semester if she/ if S/he has 4 back papers debarred papersin 5thand 6thSemester.
v. Degree and Transcripts
I. At theend of thesixth/eighth/tenth semester, the bachelor's Degree will be awarded to those who have fulfiIled all the conditions and requirements for the award of degreeasmentionedin14.5.
2. At the end of the Program, the Academic Dean of the school will put the final result ofsuccessfol students before the Academic Council of the University and after it is passed by ACM, the result will be approved by Board of Governors. Degree &

Transcripts will be awarded to those students, who have folfilled all the conditions and requirements for theaward of degree.
3. Successful students will be awarded dei,rree on the University's Annual Convocation Day.Allstudents whoqualify for the Degree are expected to attend the Convocation. Under prior approval from the Registrar, the degree certificate may be sent to the student by post/ courier if the Registrar is satisfied about the conditions so warranting.
4. The award of Degree may be withheld for non-payment of dues and non-settlement of accounts with the University or any establishment functioning under the University of for any pending disciplinary proceedings or examination malpractice.
5. Duplicate Transcript/ Degree: In case of loss of the original Degree Certificate/Transcript, a duplicate copy can be obtained on submission of a court affidavit, a copy of the FIR, and payment of feesof INR 5000or as applicable at the time of application. The application is to be addressed to The Registrar, XlM University, Bhubaneswar.
vi. Grading Pattern Exclusively For BA/BBA LLB(Hons.) Courses
Grading: Once the evaluation process ofa given course is completed, students shall be assigned grades based 011 the marks secured in the examinations and internal evaluation. Thisshall bedonebased on theeight-pointscalespecified below:

PERCENTAGE
SECUREDGRADEVALUEGRADE OFSCRITTION75% and above()8Outstanding -Exceptional knowledge of the sul ject matter, thorough understanding of issues; ability to synthe.si:r.e ideas, rules and principles and extraordinary critical and an analytical ability.70% lo 74.5%E7Excellent-Sound knowledge	oftbe subject mall.Cr,	thorough understanding of issues; ability to synthesize	ideas, rules and principles and critical and analytical ability.65% lo 69.5%A+6Very Good -Sound knowledge of the-subject matter, excellent organizational capacity, ability lo synthesize ideas, rules and principles, critically analyse existing materials and originality in thinking and	presentation.
60% to 64.5%A5Good-Good understanding of the subject matter, ability to identify issues and provide balanced solutions to problems and good critical and
analytical skills.55% to 59.5%B+4Fair-Average understanding of the subject matter, limited	ability to identify issues and provide solutions to problems and reasonable critical and
analytical skills.50% to 54.5%B3Acceptable -Adequate knowledge of the subject matter to go to the next level of study and reasonable critical and analytical skills.Below 50%F0Fail-Poor comprcbcosioo of the	subject matter, poor critical and analytical skills and marginal use of the relevant materials. WiII require repeating the cours.e7.1 er to pass the course, a student must secure at least a 'B' grade (50%).
7.2 t fails to secure a 'B' grade even after the Repeat Examinations, she or he shall be required to re-register for the course in the same semester of the following year, along with regular students of the batch immediately following.
7.3 egistered students arc required to fulfil all the requirements of the course (e.g.,assignments/project, presentation, and Examinations) except for class allendance.
7.4 , XLS may givenot more than two marks in a course as grace marks to a student who is short of 50% marks in that course. Provided a student shall not be given morethan total of fivemarks as grace marks in a semester.
7.5 t has got 47.5% or 47.5% or 48.5% marks in a course, it would be rounded up for the purpose of grace marks only. If a student has got 49.5% marks it would be rounded up to 50%.
8. CY ON PLAGIARISM
8.1 : Plagiarism is the passing offof the thoughts or works of another as one's own. Plagiarism involves giving the impression that the student has thought, written or produced something that has, in fact, been borrowed from another. This can be done in two ways, either by copying exactly what the writer has said or by summarizing or paraphrasing the ideas as your own. Copying the words or ideas of another in a piece of written work without acknowledgementof theoriginal source, amounts to an attempt to claim them as one's own.
8.2 plagiarism is detected in a piece of submitted work it may beconsidered as academic misconduct. However, appropriate quotations and due acknowledgementsof original sources that have been used as references may enhance astudent's written work.

8.3 : It is the responsibility of the students toensurethat their work is completely free of plagiarism. Each faculty member shall develop guidelines for the presentation of assignments, reports and theses, incorporating infom1ation on the matter of plagiarism for the courses he is teaching in addition to the general guidelines provided in the Manual of Policies (MoP) for Students. These are to be communicated to the students at thebeginning of each course, preferably, inthe Course Outline.
I6.4  Allegations of Plagiarism: Plagiarism may result from poor technique or more serious causes such as copying the work of another person, submitting the work of another person, or closely paraphrasing a piece of work without due acknowledgment. The circumstances relating to an allegation of plagiarism shall be assessed to detemline which of the followingshould apply:
(a) r matters of plagiarism may bedealt with by the faculty member;
(b) e serious matters including multiple allegations may be referred to the Student Disciplina1y Committee at the Dean'sdiscretion.
16.5 Penalty: Each caseshall betreated on its merits.The firstnlinor infringements may be corrected by counseling or by the imposition of a penalty, as appropriate. Depending on tbe gravity of the matter, the penalty imposed may include a warning, resubmission, lossof marks, failureon a particular task or in a subject, or a charge of misconduct to be dealt with by the Student Disciplinary Committee.
16.6 "Where a penalty is imposed, a file note of the matter shall be placed on the student's central file and a copy of the file note provided to the student. Before imposing a penalty for plagiarism, the student's file should be checked to determine whether the offence is a fust ora subsequent one. For a subsequent offence, thepenalty shall bemoresevere.
I6.7   Appeal: In matters of sufficient gravity, a smdcnt may appeal within one week of punishment, to the Vice Chancellor for review. The decision of the Vice Chancellor is final and bindingto thestudent.
9. D OF HONOURS
9.1 ing will be done based on the final COPA in a particular discipline
/programme.
10. 
10.1 Chancellor's medal for academic excellence is presented at the timeof the Convocation; subject to the condition that the award-winning student has qualified for the Degree and has not violated the academic discipline of the programme at any time during his/her tenure at the University. Vice­ Chanceltor reserves the right toaward medals.
10.2 n criteria for university medals: Student should not have failed in any courseduring his/her entire academic programme.

I8.3  Student should not haveany history of indiscipline during the programme and also not subjected to the disciplinary action by the Dean /University Disciplinary Committee.
11. ENT PERFORI\IIANCE FEEDBACK
11.1 	ty/ instructors will give academic feedback to students periodically on their performance inperson/ through mail or through the University UMS.
11.2 lty/ instructors may from time to timecaution the students if their grades/ performance is not up to theperformance.
12. E FEEDBACK BY THE STUDENTS
12.1 jective of the course feedback is to facilitate improvement in the courses.
12.2 ' feedback is taken for the faculty and thecourse before the completion of every coursethrough UMS.
12.3 s are required to give "well-considered independent feedback" on the courses taught in that. particular semester once they receive notification from the Dean's Office.
12.4 t fails to give feedback through the UMS, his/her grades will not be able to view their grades.
12.5 r such circumstance where the smdcnt fails to give feedback through the UMS, the Dean will impose a penalty of Rs. 5000/- for each course to the student
13. C E-APPEALSAND REDRESSALS
ln matters of sufficient gravity, a student may appeal within one week or award of the punishment, to the Vice Chancellor for review. The Vice Chancellor decisionshall befinal and bindingon the studentand his representatives.
14. 
(Applicable for Xavier LawSchool Only)
22.1.1 Attending XLS events like Industry talks/ Workshop/Moot Court/ Training/Conferences etc. is mandatory. Unauthorized absence from School events will result in loss of cumulative attendance for the Semester by/up to 10%.
22.1.2 Submission of faculty feedback within the notified time period is mandatory. Failure to submit the feedback will result in loss of 0.5 grade points for the Semesterand result will not be published till submission of the feedback.
22.1.3 Maintaininggood conduct is mandatory in Internship, as the student represents XLS/XIM University. Any complaint from the Organization / Law Fim1s/ Advocates etc. regarding an Intern will be treated as an act of indiscipline and appropriate punishment wi11 be imposed on thestudent by theSchool.
22.1.4 Any form of disciplinary action, debarment from examination, grade/attendance reduction by way of penal action will automatically disentitle a student from the Merit List of XLS, thereby disqualifying for Medals in Convocation.

SECTION-2



1. VALUE ADDED-PROGRAM.l\llES
The university provides coaching facility for MBAAdmission Test inside the campus premises by making necessary arrangements with a renowned coaching institute. Students who wish topursue MBAprograms after their graduation may take advantage of this facility.
2. RURALSOCIAL ENGAGEMENT PROGRAMME:
As part of rich legacy to serve the society, the XIM University has unique social engagement initiative for the UG students.This outreach undertaking mandate student engagement with community and villagers outside the University campus. Student bodyarc given all support to plan, design and engagewith community in activities like civic support events, cultural exchange, learning life lessons from community leaders etc.The University mandate that all student in their programme tenure must engage for minimum thirty hours (30) hours with community as a part of'social engagement'. This is a mandatory requirement for acquiring the undergraduate degree. Students will be awarded 3 credits for thesocialengagement programme.
3. NATIONAL SERVICE SCHEME (NSS)
NSS is a scheme and initiative of the Ministry of Sportsand Youth Affairs, Government oflndia where students can develop their personality andenhancetheir leadership skills & qualities through delivering conununity service at village level. NSS volunteers place the'community' before 'self. Sntdcnt should feel a sense of civic responsibility in providing volunta1y social service to the community in adopted villages through the developmental awareness programme, regular social activities, and a special developmentalcamp.
AsNSS volunteers, students can apply forstate and national level awards. You may visit NSS website (www.nss.gov.in)to know moreaboutNSS programs, theregular & camp activities, awards& benefits available forsntdent's volunteers.
Objectives of NSS:
Theobjective of creating NSS units is toempower UG students andcreate future leaders in them. The primary aim of the NSS programme is to develop the personality and character of the student youth through voluntary and community service. Students would gain skills in mobilizing community participation and acquire leadership qualities and democratic values. NSS aims at developing the following attributes/ competencies among thevolunteers:
• To understand thecommunity in which the NSS volunteers work andtounderstand themselves in relation to theircommunity.
• To identify the needs and problems of the community and involve themselves in problem-solvingexercises.

• To develop among themselves a senseof social and civic responsibility.
• To utilize their knowledge in finding practical solutions to individual and community problems.
• Togain skillsin mobilizing community participation.
• Toacquire leadershipqualities anddemocratic values.
• Todevelop thecapacity to meet emergencies and natural disasters.
4. MAGIS EXCHANGE-PROGRAMME
A Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) has been signed between International Association for Jesuits Universities (IAJU) and XlM University. This agreement seeks to build a cohort of student leaders who can participate in a semester-long academic international exchange programme for internship/service learning in a cross-cultural setting. Through this agreement, students selected from XIM University will pursue a Magis exchange programme in oneof the Jesuit university across theglobe. In addition, students will also study an online course on 'Global Citizenship' offered by the Loyola University Chicago ina global classroom.
5. INTERNSHIPS
5.1 Applicable to School of Governance and Public Affairs, School of Commerce, School of'Economics andSchool of Computer Science & Engineering.
5.1.1 At the end of the second year during the summer, a student is required to undergo "Summer Internship" in an organization for 6 to 8 weeks. However, for B.Tech. Computer Science & Engineering students undergo Internship at the end of third year. The objective of the summer internship is to expose the student to the practical aspect of academics. This exposure to the real world of business and industry allows him/her an oppo1tunity to relate the classroom learning to Jive situations. It gives students an opportunity to observe an organization in operation and to sharpen their knowledge and skills by putting them to use. Summer internship also gives students practical experience that will help them plan their careers.
5.1.2 The student would have an executive guide in the organization taking him/her for summer internship. On completion of the project a student is required to submit his/her Project Report to the executive guide for evaluation and to the Dean. Ordinarily, the report may not exceed 30 typed pages (sides). The contents should include definition of the problem, methodology used, data analysis, findings, conclusions, and recommendations.
5.1.3 Each student is required to make a presentation on the summer project undertaken by him or her before a panel of faculty who will evaluate and award marks/ grades.
5.1.4 No students will be entitled to receive the Degree without completing the summer internship satisfactorily. A student, who does not complete the summer internship satisfactorily, and who does not comply with the

requirements, will have to do another summer internship before becoming eligible to receive the Degree.
5.1.5 Students, who receive adverse comments from their executive guides and do any act which brings disrepute to the university will be liable for disciplinary action, whichmay result in expulsion from the university.
5.2 Applicable for Schoolof Communications
5.2.1 At the end of the first year, during the summer, a student is required to undergo "Summer Internship Programme-I" in an organization for 4 to 6 weeks.
5.2.2 At the end of the Second year, during the summer, a student is required to undergo "Summer Internship Programme-II" in an organization for 6 to 8 weeks.
5.2.3 In the sixth semester a student is required to undergo "Final Internship" in an organization for 12 weeks.
5.2.4 The Career Advisory Services Committee facilitates summer internship programme -1, II and final internship. It is purely a student driven activity, assisted by thefacully mentors.
5.2.5 The Career Advisory Services Committee office assists the students in planning their internships and industry experience.
5.2.6 Although the University shall make every attempt to facilitate the process of getting each student an internship, which may match one's interest, it cannot he taken as a mattcrofright.
5.2.7 As a matter of policy, the academic work of the students will take precedence over other activities.
5.2.8 Each student can apply to three organizations at a time, either through the School oron their own. ln caseof utilizing one'sowncontacts, thestudent is advised to inform the Coordinator of CareerAdviso1y Services Committee.
5.2.9 It is the sole responsibility of the student lo inform the Coordinator of Career Advisory Services Committee in case of any delay/ postponemenl/ adjournment/ suspension before or duringthe process ofintemship.
5.2.10 The first offer made bya company (In reference to point 6.2.7) toa student participating in the internship process will be the final offer. This implies that once a student gets an offer, s/he is considered signed out of the internship process.
5.2.11 A student's application for internship with an organization amounts to expression of his/her interest in that organization. No student will be allowed to withdraw from the internship process once his/her resume has been forwarded to the organization. An exception will be made only if the student has already signed out of the process, either voluntarily, or as a penalty, or by virtueof an earlier internship offer.

5.2.12 A student who fails to complete his/her summer internship I, II in the organization that has made an offer tohim/her through theSchool,shall be signed out from participating in the internship procedure thenext academic year.
5.2.13 In case any student is found deliberately underperforming during the internship process, or if there is any complaint or negative feedback from theexecutives of anyorganization regarding theconduct of a student,strict action will be taken as deemed fit by the Coordinator of Career Advisory Services Commillee, in consultation with the Dean. This may lead to debarment from applying to companies, or even exclusion from the entire internship process altogether.
5.2.14 Cases of misconduct/unprofessional behaviour by a student reported by the company during orafter the internship period will be dealt with utmost strictness.The minimum penalty would bedebarment from participating in the CareerAdvisory Services Committee process.
5.3 Applicable For Xavier LawSchool
5.3.1 	As per Rule 25 ofSchedule III of Part IVofBCI Rulesof Legal Education, the legal education regulator in India, the Bar Council of India prc,5cribcs that the minimum period of internship for registered law students is 20 weeks for the integrated 5 years programme. Hence the students must mandatorily do 4 to 8 weeksof internship pcrcalcndarycartograduate as a LLB student.
5.3.2 The pattern of internships semester wise shall be as follows. The students are expected to do their internships in the organizations/institutionsstated against therespective yearof study.
5.3.3 First year: Civil Society Organizations, Public Policy Think tanks, Research Centers at Law institutes,and Legal Services authorities etc.
5.3.4 Second Year: Advocates/ Law finns into Trial Court practice and district courts, Electronic Legal Repositories, LPOs etc.,
5.3.5 	Third Year: Tribunals, regulatory bodies, Law firms, Legislatives Committees, Advocates practicing at tl1e Appellate Level, High comt Clerkship, Legal wing of Political Party, Legal reporting at Media Houses, Electronic Legal Resource Analysis, Sntdcnt Research Assistantship, Registry of a Court or a Tribunal, practical law application projects undertaken in association with theSchool of Law, law reforms commission etc.,
5.3.6 	Fourth Year: Law Firms, Corporates, PSU's and Regulatory Bodies, SC clerkship, any other places of law in action or litigation and management, etc.,
5.3.7 	Fifth Year: dependingon the area of interest and thecareer progression the student can intern in an organization of their choice like Law Firms, Corporates, Regulatory Bodies, Judicial Offices, Supreme Court and High Court Judges, Advocates, etc.,

SECTION -3
FEATURES OF THE 4-YEAR DEGREE PROGRAM

The following are the key features of the 4-year Degree Program as per National Education Policy 2020. These will serve as the general guidelines for students taking admission into various Undergraduate Programs in different schools of the University in the Academic Year 2025-26.
1. DURATION ANDTOTALCREDITS
(a) The duration of the program is 4 years or 8 semesters. However, the students who wish to undergo a 3-ycar UG program will beallowed to exit after completion of the 3rd year.
(b) Theprogram offers a total of 171 credits including 2 credits for Summer Internship Project (SIP)
( c) An academic year is divided into twosemesters and eachsemester basa minimum of 90 working days.
2. TYPESOFCOURSES
The program offers a combination of Major course, Minor course, Ability Enhancement Course, Skill Enhancement Course, Multidisciplinary Course, Value Added Course, Summer Internship Projectetc.
3. ENTRYANDEXITOPTIONS
The program offers multiple entry, multiple exit and re-entry options. Students are required to complete the degree program within a maximum period of seven years. Studentsseeking reentry and transfer from other universities will berequired toappear before a committee comprising the concerned Dean of the school, and two other senior faculty members. The committee, after examining the merits of the case will give its appropriate decision.
4. MAJORAND M.INORDISCIPLINE
i) Major Discipline-majordiscipline is thesubject of focusand thedegree will be awarded in that discipline. Students should obtain credit through core courses in the majordiscipline as per thecourse structure.
ii) Minor Discipline- Minor discipline helps a student gain a broader understanding beyond the major discipline. Sn1dents must earn the credits through courses in minordiscipline as per thecourse strucmre.
iii) Value added courses shall be conunon to all the Undergraduate students at different schools.

5. AWARD OFUG CERTIFICATE, UG DIPLOMA,AND DEGREES
(a) UG Certificate: Students who havesatisfied the minimum credit requirements at the end of thefirst year(two semesters) and wish to exit theprogram will be awarded a Certificate. Such sntdents can reenter within three years and will be required to complete theprogram within thestipulated period of7 years.
(b) UG Diploma: Students who havesatisfied the minimum credit requirements at theendof thesecond year(foursemesters)and wish toexit theprogram will be awarded a Diploma. Such sntdents can reenter within three years and will be required to complete theprogram within thestipulated period of7 years.
(c) UG Degree: Students who have satisfied the minimum credit requirements at theend of the third year(six semesters) and wish to exit the program will be awarded a Degree in the majordiscipline.
(d) UG Degree(Honours): Students who have satisfied the minimum credit requirements at the end of the fourth year(eight semesters) will be awarded Honours degree in the major discipline.
(e) UG Degree(Honours with Research): Students who wish to undertake a research stream in the fourth year must secure a minimum of75% marks(7.5 CGPA) in the first six semesters. Such students will be required to do a research project or dissertation in the majordiscipline. under theguidance of a faculty. Upon satisfying the academic credit requirements UG Dcgrcc(Honours with Rcscarch)will beawarded.
(t)  UG Degree(Honours without Research): Students who do not undertake research in the fourth year will be required to do 3 courses and earn 12 credits in lieu of a research project or dissertation. Such students will be awarded a UG Dcgrcc(Honours without Research).
After completion of the2""year,students arc required to undergo internships in a firm, industry, or organizations during the summers for about six to eight weeks. After completion of the SIP, each student is required to submit a report to thedean'soffice forevaluat
6. SUMMER  INTERNSfflP PRO.JECT(SIP)
Aftercompletion of the 2" year, students are required to undergo internships in a finn, industry, or organizations during the summers for about six to eight weeks. After completion of the SIP, each sn1dent isrequired tosubmita reporttothe dean'sotlice forevaluation.
7. VOCATIONAL COURSE A DIOR TRAINING
Vocationalcourses are practical oriented courses providing real world applications and knowledge. These courses are aimed at enhancing the skill sets of students and improving their employability. Students who wish to exit after t\vo semesters or four semesters will be required to take up vocational courses and / or training during the summers of first year or second year for which necessary instructions will beprovided to them by their respective schools.

8. STUDENT ACTIVITY COUNCIL
a) The Student Activity Council (SAC) serves as the principal student representative body of the Undergraduate Wing at XIM University. It functions as a liaison between the UG student community and the University administration, overseeing and coordinating all student-related activities al the undergraduate level. The SAC is headed by the General Secretary and comprises the Treasurer, Cultural Secretaries, Sports Secretaries, Coordinator - Student Wellness Centre, Coordinator - International Relations Committee, and School Secretaries, who represent each of the Undergraduate Schools of the University. All members of the Student Activity Council arc elected through a democratic process by the sntdcnt body. The SAC acts as the primary interface for sntdcnt discussions with the Vice-Chancellor, Registrar, Deputy Registrar, Coordinator - Student Affairs (CSA-UG), and Deans of the Undergraduate Schools, on all matters concerning undergraduate-level activities and other relevant student interests. The primary mandate of the SAC is to ensure the effective and seamless execution of all student activities across the Undergraduate Wing. It also reviews and proposes collaborations with external agencies to the administration, with the objective of enhancing the student experience and fostering holistic development within the undergraduate community.

b) There arc two types of committees, namely the CORE Committee and the TNTEREST Committees, which assist the SAC in organising and foci litating the smooth conduct of various sntdcnt-rclatcd activities across the University.




























122

SECTION-4
PROGRAMME STRUCTURE & COURSE LISTS
(Note - CBCS: Choice Based Credit System, DSE: Discipline Specific Elective)
B.A. (HONS.) PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNANCE (4 YEARS PROGRAMME)

SEMESTER - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/UPG/25/S!/!PADIntroduction to Public Administration4GP/UPG/25/SI/ICOGIndian Constitution and Government4GP/UPG/25/S1/INPTIntroduction to Political Theory4GP/UPG/25/S I/MINHModern Indian History4GP/Ul'G/25/SI/t:NCO IEnglish Communication-I2GP/UPG/25/S1/ENVSEnvironmental Studies2GP/UPG/25/SI/COENCommunity Engagement2SEMESTER - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/UPG/25/S2/IPGOIntroduction 10 Policy and Governance4CiP/lJP(i/25/S2/INECIntroduction to Economics4GP/UPG/25/S2/WPTHWestern Political Thought4GP/UPG/25/S2/PYSEPsychology for Self4GP/Ul'G/25/S2/ENC02English Communication-II2GJ>/UPG/25/S2/ITDAIT & D,lla Analytics2GP/UPG/25/S2/UNHVUniversal Human Values2SEMESTER - 111Course CodeCourse NameCreditGP/UPG/25/S3/UNPIUnderstanding Politics: Ideas, Institutions and Issues
4GJ>/UPG/25/S3/INADIndian Administration4GP/UPG/25/S3/IPTHIndian Political Thought4GP/UPG/25/S3/MOWHModern World History4GP/UPG/25/S3/WRMEWriting for Media2GP/UPG/25/S3/CSPPCommunication Skills for Public Policy2GP/UPG/25/S3/HEWEHealth and Wellness2
SEMESTER - IV
Course CodeCourse NameCreditGP/UPG/25/S4/PPPIPolitics and Public Policy in India4GP/UPG/25/S4/INECIndian Economy4GP/UPG/25/S4/JNRTInternational Relations Theory4GP/UPG/25/S4/INSOIndian Society4GP/UPG/25/S4/POWRPolicy Writing3GP/UPG/25/S4/ACWRAcademic Writing2GP/UPG/25/S4/DTESDigital and Technological Solutions2GP/UPG/25/S0/SUIPSurnmcr Internship Programme2SEMESTER -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/UPG/25/S5/CPPAComparative Politics and Public Administration4GP/UPG/25/SS/PPANPublic Policy Analysis4<iP/lJP(i/25/SS/DICiODigital Ciovernance4GP/UPG/25/S5/POGLPolitics of Globali:G.llion4GP/UPG/25/S5/GRGOGreen Governance4<i P/UPCi/25/SS/IOCi( iInternational Organii.ations and Global Governance

4SEMESTER - VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCiP/lJP(i/25/S6/PEADPersonnel Administration4GJ>/UJ>G/25/S6/DAl>MDevelopment Administration4GP/UPG/25/S6/ADETAdministrative Ethics4GP/UPG/25/S6/ADMLAdministrntive Law4GP/UPG/25/S6/ISCMInternal Security and Conflict Management4GP/UPG/25/S6/INWOIndia and the World4SEMESTER - VII (WITII RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameG'reditGP/UPG/25/S7/WADMWelfare Administration4GP/UPG/25/S7/DPCSDecentralized Planning, Civil Society and Governance
4GP/UPG/25/S7/DRRMDisaster Risk Reduction and Management4GP/UPG/25/S7/REMEResearch Methodology4GP/UPG/25/S7/SSTUSecurity Studies4

SEMESTER - VII (\\/ITHOUT RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditGP/UPG/25/S7/WADMWelfare Administration4GP/UPG/25/S7/DPCSDc(:cntralizcd Planning, Civil Society and Governance
4GP/UPG/25/S7/DRRMDisaster Risk Reduction and Management4GP/UPG/25/S7/BSDABehavioural Science and Decision Analysis for Public Policy
4GP/UPG/25/S7/SSTUSecurity Studies4SEMESTER -VIII (WITH RESEARCH)GP/UPG/25/S8/DISSDissertation12SEMESTER - VIII (WITIIOUT RESEARCII)Course CodeCourse NameCreditGP/UPG/25/S8/l'UFIPublic Finance4GP/UPG/25/SS/PICMPolicy Innovation and Change Management4(iP/UPCi/25/S8/HRPPHuman Rights and Public Policy4
B.A. (HONS.) PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND GOVERNANCE (3 YEARS PROGRAMME)



SEMESTER- ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/UPG/24/Sl/POLPolitical Theory: Concepts and Debates6GP/UPG/24/SI/IPAIntroduction to Public Administration: Principles and
Theories6GP/UPG/24/S1/HDSIHuman Development and Social Inclusion6GP/UPG/24/SI/ECOEconomics6GP/UPG/24/SI/ECEnglish Communication4GP/UPG/24/S1/CSPPICommunication Skills for Public Policy I2SEMESTER- IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/UPG/24/S2/SOCSociology6GP/UPG/24/S2/IPHIntroduciion to Public Hcallh6GP/UPG/24/S2/IPGIntroduction to Policy and Governance(,GP/Ul'G/24/S2/ICGPIndian Constitution, Government and Politics6GP/UPG/24/S2/ESEnvironmental Sn1dics4( lP/lJP(i/24/S2/CSPPIICommunication Skills for Public Policy II2SEMESTER- IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/UPG/24/S3/IAIndian Administration6OP/UP(i/24/S3/CS<iCivil Society and Governance6GP/UPG/24/S3/RMRe.search Methodology6GP/UPG/24/S3/PYSEPsychology for Self6SEMESTER- IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/UPG/24/S4/CPDAComparative Public and Development Administration6GP/UPG/24/S4/IRGGInternational Relations and Global Govemance6GP/UPG/24/S4/DGDigital Governance6GP/UPG/24/S4/AWiAcademic Writing I2GP/UPG/24/S4/ROWReligions of the World6
SEMESTER- VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditGP/UPG/24/SS/PAJPersonnel Administration in India6GP/UPG/24/SS/AEGAdministrative Ethics and Governance6GP/UPG/24/SS/OBOrganisational Behaviour6GP/UPG/24/S5/DRRMDisaster Risk Reduction and Management6GP/UPG/24/S5/AW2Academic Writing II2SEMESTER- VJCourse CodeCourse NameCre<lit( i P/UP(i/24/S6/PFSPublic Finance and Social Audit6GP/UPG/24/S6/CMALConflict Management & Leadership6GP/UPG/24/S6/DISSERTATI
ONDissertation6
.B.Sc. (HONS.) ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE) (4 YEARS PROGRAMME)



SEMESTER  - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/UE-S/25/S1/INENIntroduction lO the Environment4SU/UES/25/S I/NRMSNatural Resource Management and Sustainable Development4SU/UES/25/SI/ENSIEnvironmental and Social Issues4SU/UES/25/S1/PRMAPrinciples of Management4SU/UES/25/SI/BCSOBasic Concept of Sociology4SU/UES/25/Sl/ENCOlEnglish Communication-I2SU/UES/25/Sl/WQANWater Quality Analysis2SU/UES/25/SI/COENCommunity Engagement2SEMESTER - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/UES/25/S2/IPENIntroduction to the Physical Environment4SU/UES/25/S2/113IEIntroduction to the Biological Environment4SU/UE-S/25/S2/CLCHClimate Change4SU/UES/25/S2/INOBIntroduction OB&IIR4SU/UES/25/S2/DSFUData Science Fundamentals4SU/UE-S/25/S2/ENCO2English Communication-II2SU/UES/25/S2/AQANAir Quality Analysis2SU/UES/25/S2/UNHVUniversity Human Value2SEMESTER  - IIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/UES/25/S3/FUECFundamentals of Ecology4SU/UES/25/S3/BIDCBiodiversity and Conservation4SU/UES/25/S3/ECREEcological Restoration4SU/UES/25/S3/FIMAFinancial Management4SU/UES/25/S3/DMEPDigital Media & Photography4SU/UES/25/S3/ACWRAcademic Writing2SU/UES/25/S3/SQANSoil Quality Analysis2SU/UES/25/S3/HEWEHeallh and Wellness2

SEMESTER - rvCourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/UES/25/S4/WAMAWaste Management4SU/UES/25/S4/ENCHEnvironmental Chemistry4SU/UES/25/S4/WRMAWater Resources Management4SU/UES/25/S4/MARMMarketing Management4SU/UES/25/S4frEEATechniques for Environmental Analysis4SU/UES25/S4/WRl\.1EWriting for Media2SU/UF.S/25/S4/UEMAUrban Environment Management3SU/UES/25/S4/DTESDigital & Technological Solutions2SEMESTER -VCourse C',0deCourse NameCreditSU/UES/25/S5/EPI111Environmental Pollution and lluman llealth4SU/UES/25/S5/ENENEnergy and Environment4SU/UES/25/SS/ENLI'Environmental Legislation and Policy4SU/UES/25/SS/LSCMLand and Soil Conservation and Management4SU/UES/25/SS/RESGRemote Sensing and GIS4SU/UES/25/SS/ENGVEnvironment.al Gov :n1ance4SU/UES/25/SS/IECOIntroduction lo Economics4SU/UES/25/S5/JNTRInternational Relations: Theories and Issues4SEMESTER - VJCourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/UES/25/S6/DIMADisaster Management4SU/UES/25/S6/ENIAEnvironmental Impact Assessment4SU/UES/25/S6/ENECEnvironmental Economics4SU/UES/25/S6/REMEResearch Methodology and Ethics4SU/UES/25/S6/SENMStatistics and Environmental Modeling4SU/UES/25/S6/FUMEFundamentals of Marine Ecology4SU/UES/25/S6/0PMAOperations Management4SEMESTER  - VIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/UES/25/S7/!HESIndustrial Health and Safety4SU/UES/25/S7/ENGEEnvironmental Geoinfonnatics4SU/UES/25/S7/GCGTGreen Chemistry and Green Technology4SU/UES/25/S7/ APCMAtmospheric Processes and Climate Modelling4SU/UES/25/S7/COSRCorporate Social Responsibility4SU/UES/25/S7/BULEBusiness Law & Ethics4
SEMESTER - VIII
Course CodeCourse NameCreditSU/UES/25/S8/EVMSEnvironmental Management Systems4SU/UES/25/S8/SUEPSustainable Energy Projects4SU/UES/25/S8/BIINFBioinfonnatics4SU/UES/25/S8/DJSSDisseltation4SU/UES/25/S0/SUJPSummer Internship Programme2
















































B.Sc. (HONS.) SD (SPECIALIZATION IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (4 YEARS PROGRAMME)



SEMESTER  - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USD/25/S1/HDSIHuman Development and Social Inclusion4SU/USD/25/S1/NRMSNatural Resource Management and Sustainable Development4SU/USD/25/S1/ENSlEnvironmental and Social Issues4SU/USD/25/S1/PRMAPrinciples of Management4SU/US0/25/S1/BCSOBasic Concept of Sociology4SU/USD/25/S1/ENCO IEnglish Communication-I2SU/USD/25/S1/WQANWater Quality Analysis2SU/US0/25/S I/COENCommunity Engagement2SEMESTER  - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USD/25/S2/JSDEThe Joumey of Suslainablc Dcvclopmenl4SU/US0/25/S2/lll IEIntroduction to the lliological Environment4SU/USD/25/S2/CLCHClimate Change4SU/USD/25/S2/INOBIntroduction OB&HR4SU/USD/25/S2/DSCFData Science Fundamentals4SU/USD/25/S2/ENC02English Communication-II2SU/US0/25/S2/AQANAir Quality Analysis2SU/USD/25/S2/UNI-IVUniversity Human Value2SEMESTER  -IIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USD/25/S3/FUECFundamentals of Ecology4SU/USD/25/S3/BIDCBiodiversity and Conservation4SU/USD/25/S3/ECREEcological Restoration4SU/USD/25/S3/FlMAFinancial Management4SU/USD/25/S3/DMEPDigital Media & Photography4SU/USD/25/S3/ACWRAcademic Wriling2SU/USD/25/S3/SQANSoil Quality Analysis2SU/USD/25/S3/HEWEHealth and Wellness2
SEMESTER  - JVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USD/25/S4/WAMAWaste Management4SU/US0/25/S4/ENGEEnvi.ronment and Gender4SU/USD/25/S4/WRMAWater Resources Management4SU/USD/25/S4/tvWlMMarketing Management4SU/USD/25/S4/PPATPublic Policy Analysis Theories4SU/USD/25/S4/WRMEWriting for Media2SU/USD/25/S4/UEMAIJrban Environment Management3SIJ/USD/25/S4/DTESDigital & Technological Solutions2SEMESTER -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USD/25/SS/EPIIIIEnvironmental Pollution and Human 11ealth4SU/USD/25/SS/ENENEnergy and Environment4SU/USD/25/SS/ENLPEnvironmental Legislation and Policy4SU/USD/25/S5/LSCMumd and Soil Conservation and Management4SU/USD/25/S5/RESGRemote Sensing and GIS4SU/USD/25/S5/ENGOEnvirorunental Governance4SU/USD/25/SS/IECOIntroduction to Economics4SU/USD/25/SS/INTRInternational Relations: Theories and Issues4SEMESTER  - VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USD/25/S6/DIMADisaster Management4SU/USD/25/S6/ENIAEnvironmental Impact Assessment4SU/USD/25/S6/ENECEnvironmental Economics4SU/USD/25/S6/REMEResearch Methodology and Ethics4SU/USD/25/S6/SOI ASocial Impact Assessment4SU/USD/25/S6/FUMEFundamentals of Marine Ecology4SU/USD/25/S6/0PMAOperations Management4SEMESTER  - VIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USD/25/S7/IHESIndustrial Health and Safety4SU/USD/25/S7/DPGODecentralized Planning and Governance4SU/USD/25/S7/SUCPSustainable Consumption & Production4SU/USD/25/S7/GHGAGHG Accounting4SU/USD/25/S7/COSRCorporate Social Responsibility4SU/USD/25/S7/BULEBusiness Law & Ethics4

SEMESTER - VIIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USD/25/SS/EVMSEnvironmental Management Systems4SU/USD/25/S8/SUEPSustainable Energy Projects4SU/USO/25/S8/CSGOCivil Society and Govemaoce4SU/USD/25/S8/DISSDissertation4SU/USO/25/S0/SUIPSummer Internship Prognimmc2
B.Sc. (HONS.) SD (SPECIALIZATION IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE) (3 YEARS PROGRAMME)


SEMESTER - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/UES/25/SI/INENIntroduction to the Environment (EVS)4SU/USD/25/S1/HDSIHuman Development and Social Jnclusion(SD)4SU/USD/25/S1/NRMSNatural Resource Management and Sustainable Development4SU/USD/25/SI/ENS! or
SU/USD/25/S1/PRMAEnvironmental and Social Issues / Principles of
Management4SU/USD/25/S1/BCSOBasic concept of Socioloi,,y4SU/USD/25/S1/ENCOIEnglish Communication-I2SU/USD/25/S1/WQANWater Quality Analysis2SU/USD/25/S I/COENCommunity Engagement -NSS, NCC, Etc2SEMESTER - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USD/25/S2/IBIEIntroduction to the Biological Environment4SU/UES/25/S2/IPENIntroduction to tbc Pbysical Environment (EVS)4SU/USD/25/S2/JSDEThe Journey of Sustainable Development (SD)4SU/USD/25/S2/CLCII
& SU/USD/25/S2/INOllClimate Change/Introduction OB & HR4SU/USD/25/S2/DSCFData Science Fundamentals4SU/USD/25/S2/ENC02English Communication-22SU/USD/25/S2/AQANAir Quality Analysis2SU/USD/25/S2/UNHVUniversity Human value2SEMESTER - IIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USU/24/S3/FEGFundamentals of Ecology6SU/USU/24/S3/BDCBiodiversity and Conservation6SU/USU/24/S3/WROWater Resources6SU/USU/24/S3/DIPHDigital Photography6SU/USD/24/S3/RSGFRemote Sensing, Geographic Jnfomiation System
& Modelling4
SEMESTER - IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USU/24/S4/SWMSolid Waste Management6SU/USU/24/S4/ECHEnvironmental Chemistry6SU/USU/24/S4/BESCBa.5ics of Environmental Statistics and Computer
Application6SU/UES/24/S4/GTGreen Technologies (EVS)6SU/USU/24/S4/EGNEnvironment and Gender (SD)6SU/USU/24/S4/EIRAEnvironment Impact & Risk Assessment4SEMESTER - VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USU/23/S5/EPHHEnvironmental Pollution and Human Health6SU/UES/23/SS/EINEnvironmental Instrumentation (EVS)6SU/USD/23/S5/SCPSustainable. Consumption and Production (SD)6SU/USU/23/SS/EENEnergy & Environment6SU/USU/23/SS/EECOEnvironmental Economics6SEMESTER - VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditSU/USU/23/S6/EIPEnvironmental legislation and policy6SU/USU/23/S6/ATPOAtmospheric processes6SU/USU/23/S6/CPCapstone Project2SU/USU/23/S6/NHDMNatural Hazards and Disaster Management6SU/USU/23/S6/LSCMLand and Soil Conservation and Management6
B.Sc. (HONS.) ECONOMICS (4 YEARS PROGRAMME)



SEMESTER - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/UEC/25/S1/IMIEIntroductory Microeconomics4EC/UEC/25/SI/!JvlAEIntroductory Macroeconomics4EC/UEC/25/SI/IMMEIntroductory Mathematical Methods for Economics4EC/UEC/25/SI/BPSYBasic Concepts of Psychology4EC/UEC/25/S1/ENC:O IEnglish Communication I2EC/UEC/25/SI/COPSCommunication and Presentation Skills2EC/UEC/25/SI/COENCommunity Engagement2EC/UEC/25/S1/MBEC:M,uhcmaiics for Business Economics4SEMESTER - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/UEC/25/S2/INECIIndian Economy I4EC/UEC'J25/S2/RDECBasic Development Economics4EC/UEC/25/S2/ISECIntroductory Statistics for Economics4EC/UEC/25/S2/l'PGOPublic Policy &Govemancne4EC/UEC/25/S2/ENCO2English Communication II2EC/UEC/25/S2/ICOAIntroduction to Computer Application2EC/UEC/25/S2/UNHVUniversal Human Values2EC/UEC/25/S2/S13ECStatistics for Busine.ss Economics4SEMESTER - IllCourse CodeCourse NameC'reditEC/UEC/25/S3/IJv0E Ilntcnnc<liatc Microcc-0nomics I4EC/UEC/25/S3/IMAEIIntermediate Macroeconomics I4EC/UEC/25/S3/INECIntroductory Econometrics4EC/UEC/25/S3/DMEPDigital Media & Photography4EC/UEC/25/S3/CWLICreative Writing and Literature2EC/UEC/25/S3/ECDHIEconomic Data Handling (Databases) - I2EC/UEC/25/S3/HEWEHealth & Wellness2
SEMESTER - rvCourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/UEC/25/S4/IMIE2Intermediate Microeconomics II4ECJUEC/25/S4/IMAE2Intermediate Macroeconomics II4EC/UEC/25/S4/DASSData Analysis with Statistical Softwares (R, Python, SAS,
STATA)
4EC/UEC/25/S4/ELECElements of Econometrics4EC/UEC/25/S4/SHAKShakespeare Plays2EC/UEC/25/S4/ECDH2Economic Data Handling (Databases) - II3EC/UEC/25/S4/DTESDigital & Technological Solutions2t-:C/UEC/25/$4/f'IMAFinancial ManagcmcnL4St-:MESTt-:R -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/IJ£C/25/S5/DEEC2Development Economics II4EC/UEC/25/SS/INECInternational Economics4ECJUEC/25/SS/AGECAgricultural Economics4EC/UEC/25/$5/MBFIMoney, Banking & Finance4EC/UEC/25/SS/ENECEnvironmental Economics4ECJUEC/25/SS/APECApplied Econometrics with R/STATA/SAS/EXCEL4F.C/U t-:C/25/S.5/MARMMarketing Management4EC/UEC/25/S6/HECTHistory of Economic Thoughts4SEMESTER - VTCourse CodeC',0ursc NameCreditEC/UEC/25/S6/INEC2Indian Economy II4EC/UEC/25/$6/FIECFinancial Economics4EC/UEC/25/S6/AQFIApplied Quantitative Finance4EC/UEC/25/S6/DEEC3Development Economics III4EC/UEC/25/$6/ADECAdvanced Econometrics with R/STATA/SAS/EXCEL4EC/UEC/25/S6/INMDInvestment Nlanagement and Derivatives4SEMESTER - vrrCourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/UEC/25/S?/AMIEAdvanced Microeconomics4ECJUEC/25/$7/AMAEAdvanced Macroeconomics4EC/UEC/25/S7/COFICorporate Finance4EC/UEC/25/S?/INFIInternational Finance4ECJUEC/25/$7/ECFMEconometrics ofFinancial Markets4EC/UEC/25/S?/QTMAQuantitative Techniques for Management4ECJUEC/25/S?/SMRMStatistical Methods & Research Methodology4
SEMESTER - VIIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/UEC/25/S8/PUF!Public Finance4EC/UEC/25/S8/MOECMonetary Economics4EC/UEC/25/S8/INORIndustrial Organization4EC/UEC/25/S8/DISSDissertation12EC/UEC/25/S0/SUIPSummer Internship Programme2
B.Sc. (HONS.) ECONOMICS
(3 YEARS PROGRAMME)



SEMESTER-ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/UEC/24/SI/IMIEIntroductory microeconomics6ECJUEC/24/SI/MEIMathematics for economists I6EC/UEC/24/SI/SELStudies in english literature4EC/UEC/24/S1/ClPPIndian polity: the constitution of india and the political process6SEMESTER-IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/UEC/24/S2/IMAEIntroductory macroeconomics6EC/UEC/24/S2/ME2Mathematics for economists II6EC/UEC'J24/S2/CLClassics shakcspcarean plays6EC/lJEC/24/S2/ESEnvironmental science4SEMESTER-IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC'JUEC'J23/S3/IMIE1.Intennediatc microeconomics I6EC/UEC/23/S3/IMAEIlntem1ediate macroeconomics I6EC/UEC/23/S3/SMStatistical methods for economists6EC/UEC/23/S3/LSCIndian society &culture6
EC/lJEC/23/S3/ASP
Application of statistical package for economic analysis (python)
4SEMESTER-IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/UEC/23/S4/IMIE2Intermediate microeconomics II6EC/UEC/23/S4/IMAE2Intennediate macroeconomics Il6EC/UEC/23/S4/EEElements ofeconometrics6EC/UEC/23/S4/RRMResearch & reporting methods+ data analytics & interpretation4EC/UEC/23/S4/DMMCDigital media & mass communication6
SEMESTER-VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/UEC/22/S5/DEIDevelopment economic.s I6EC/UEC/22/SSnEIIndian economy I6EC/UEC/22/S5/INTEInternational economics6EC/UEC/22/SS/MBFMoney banking & finance6SEMESTER-VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditEC/UEC/22/S6/IE2Indian economy 116EC/UEC/22/S6/DE2Development economics Il6EC/UEC/22/S6/PEPublic economics6EC/UEC/22/S6/FINMFinancial markets, institutions and valuations6t::C/Ut::C/22/S6/DISSDissertation6
B.sc. (HONS) MEDIA STUDIES (4 YEARS PROGRAMME)
Major in Media Studies and Minor in Liberal Arts



SEMESTER - JCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCM/IJMS/25/S1/IJMCIntroduction to Journalism & Mass Communication4CM/UMS/25/SI/MCTHMass Communication Theories4C!vVUMS25/S1/SPAASocial Psychology, Audience, Art & Aesthetics4CM/UMS/25/SI/FINRFundamentals oflntemational Relations4CM/UMS/25/S1/ENCOlEnglish Communication - J2CM/UMS/25/S1/DSPHDigital Still Photography2CM/UMS/25/SI/COENCommunity Engagement2SEMESTER - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCM/UMS/25/S2/IFAPIntroduction 10 Film & Audio-Visual Production4CM/UMS/25/S2/DRAVDigital R.idio Production, Audio Engineering & Video Editing
4CM/UMS/25/S2/MRCSMedia, Religion, Culture & Society4CM/UMS/25/S2/PRMAPrinciples of Management4CM/UMS/25/S2/ENC02English Communication • II2CM/UMS/25/S2/CAGDComputer Application for Graphic Design2CM/UMS/25/S2/UNHVUniversal Human Values2SEMESTER • IIICourse CodeC',0ursc NameCreditCM/UMS/25/S3/ADPRAdvertising & Public Relations4CM/UMS/25/S3/ENMPEntertainment Media & Production4CM/UMS/25/S3/ESSCEnvironmental Science & Sustainable Communication4CM/UMS/25/S3/CADAComputer Applications for Data Analytics4CM/UMS/25/S3/CRWRCreative Writing2CM/UMS/25/S3/GDPDGraphic Design for Print & Digital Media2CM/UMS/25/S3/HEWEHealth & Wellness2

SEMESTER - IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCM/UMS/25/S4/OFMADigital Film Making4CM/UMS/25/S4/HDCOHe<1lth & Development Communication4CM/UMS/25/S4/MMEMMedia, Marginality & Empowerment4CM/UMS/25/S4/ORBEOrganizational Behavior4CM/UMS/25/S4/WRMEWriting for Media2CM/UMS/25/S4/MGDEMotion Graphic Design3CM/UMS/25/S4/DTESDigital & Technological Solutions2CM/UMS/25/S0/SUIPSummer Internship Programme2SEMESTER - \ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCl\1/UMS/25/S5/DSMMDigital & Social Media Marketing4CM/UMS/25/S5/C()COCorporate Communication4Cl\1/UMS/25/S5/WEl::lDWeb Designing4CM/UMS/25/S5/EVMAEvent Management4CM/UMS/25/S5/CJAf>Convergent Journalism, Anchoring & Presentation4CM/UMS/25/S5/lNDPInstructional Design & Production4SEMESTER - VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCM/UMS/25/S6/DTCODesign Thinking for Communication4CM/UMS/25/S6/LMEHLegal Environment, Media Law, Ethics & Human Rights4CM/UMS/25/S6/ANVEAnimation & Visual Effects4CM/UMS/25/S6/ADJSAdvance Journalism Studies4CM/UMS/25/S6/DOFPDocumenta,y Film Production4CM/UMS/25/S6/PDDWPersonality Development & Digital Workplace4SEMESTER -VIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCM/UMS/25/$7/MCREMedia & Communication Research4CM/UMS/25/S7/ARTOAdvance Research Tools4CM/UMS/25/S7NICCVisual Culture & Communication4CM/UMS/25/S7/AIMCA1tificial Intelligence Tools for Media & Communication4CM/UMS/25/S7/WNLEWell-Being & New Age Leadership4CM/UMS/25/S7/MEENMedia Entrepreneurship4CM/UMS/25/S7/MEGOMedia Economics & Governance4CM/UMS/25/S7/GCCCGlobal & Cross-Cultural Communication4
SEMESTER  - VIIICourse CodeCourse NameCrcdilCM/UMS/25/S8/DISSDissertation12CM/UMS/25/S8/CRCOCrisis Communication4C!WUMS/25/S8/BMANBrand Management4CM/UMS/25/S8/IIEXlndust1y Interface Experience4
B.SC. (HONS.) MASS COMMUNICATION (3 YEARS PROGRAMME)



SEMESTER-ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCM/UMC/24/SI/APAAAudience Psychology, Art & Aesthetics3CM/UMC/24/S1/CAGD IComputer Application - Grnphic Design I5CM/UMC/24/SI/DARI'Digital Audio & Radio Production4CM/UMC'J24/SJ/DSPDigital Still Photography3CM/UMC/24/SI/ECEnglish Communication2CM/UMC/24/S1/JJIntroduction to Journalism3CM/UMC/24/S1/IMCShin-oduction to Mass Communication Studies3SEMESTER-IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCM/UMC/24/S2/CAGDIIComputer Application - Graphic Design II5CM/UMC/24/S2/EFElements of Film4CM/UMC/24/S2/ESEnvironmental Studies2CNI/UMC/24/S2/ITVI'Introduction to Television Production4CNI/UMC/24/S2/MC'TMass Communication Theories',Clvl/UMC'J24/S2/SIPISummer Internship Program - I6CM/UMC/24/S2/WMWriting for Media4SEMESTER-IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditClvl/UMC/24/S3/M:csMedia Culture & Society',Clvl/UMC/24/S3/APRAdvertising & Public Relations4CM/UMC/24/S3/NRANews Reporting & Anchoring3CM/UMC/24/S3/MGDMotion Graphic Design5CM/UMC/24/S3/ETVEntertainment Television5CM/UMC/24/S3/DVEDigital Video Editing',

SEJvfESTER-IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCM/UMC/24/S4/CDCommunication for Development3CM/UMC/24/S4/MRMedia Research4CM/UMC/24/S4/CEGCCorporate Etiquette & Group Communication3CM/UMC/24/S4/DMSMDigital Marketing & Social Media' jCM/UMC/24/S4/VEVisual Effects5CM/UMC/24/S4/0JOnline Journalism3CM/UMC/24/S4/0FMDigital Film Making3CM/UMC/24/S4/SIPl1Summer Internship Program - JI6SEMESTER-\/Course CodeCourse NameCreditCM/UMC/23/SS/MLEMedia Law & Ethics3CM/UMC:/23/S5/EMEvent Management3CM/UMC/23/S5/DPRCDigital Public Relations & Corporate Communication4CM/UMC/23/S5/EMDPEducational Media Design & Production'.,CM/UMC/23/SS/OFPDocumcotary Film Production4CM/UMC/23/SS/DISSDissenation6SEMESTER-VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCM/UMC/23/S6/FIFinal Internship12CM/UMC/23/S6/CP(',apstonc Project6CM/UMC/23/S61CSComprehensive Studies3
B. Com (HONS.) ACCOUNTING (4 YEARS PROGRAMME)



SEMESTER -ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S 1/FIACIFinancial Accounting-I4CO/UBC/25/S I/BULABusincss Law4CO/UBC/25/S 1/PRMGPrinciples of Management4CO/UBC/25/S I/BUMABusiness Mathematics4CO/UBC/25/Sl/ENGLIEnglish-I2CO/UBC/25/S 1/ENSTEnvironmental Studies2CO/UBC/25/SI/COENCommunity Engagement-NSS/NCC2SEMESTER  - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S2/FIAC2Financial Accounting-II4CO/UBC/25/S2/COACCost Accounting4CO/UBC'J25/S2/POMKPrinciples of Marketing4CO/UBC/25/S2/BSTABusiness Statistics4CO/UBC/25/S2/ENGL2English-II2CO/UBC/25/S2/CArnComputer Application for Business2CO/UBC/25/S2/UNHVUniversal Human Values2SEMESTER - IIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S3/f1NMFinancial Institutions and Markets4CO/UBC/25/S3/MAACManagement Accounting4CO/UBC/25/S3/MIECMicro Economics4CO/UBC/25/S3/ECCAEthics, Governance and Sustainability4CO/UBC/25/S3/IOHRIntroduction to OB&HR2
CO/UBC/25/S3/EGASE-commerce and Computerised Accounting
2CO/UBC/25/S3/HEWEHealth and Wellness2
SEMESTER  -IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S4/COLACorporate Laws4CO/UBC/25/S4/FIMA IFinancial Management-I4CO/UBC/25/S4/MAECMacro Economic-s4CO/UBC/25/S4/REMEResearch Methodology4CO/UBC/25/S4/ENDEEntrepreneurship Development2CO/UBC/25/S4/SOSKSoft Skills3CO/UBC/25/S4/DTESDigital & Technological Solutions2SEMESTER -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/SS/COACCorponite Accounting4CO/UI3C/25/S5/DITADirect Taxes4CO/UBC/25/S5/flMA2Financial Management-II4CO/UBC/25/S5/COBACommercial Banking4DSE-1 ((iroup-A)4DSE-2 (Oroup-A)4SEMESTER -VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S6/TNTAIndirect Taxes4CO/UBC/25/S6/AUASAuditing and Assurances Services4CO/UBC/25/S6/PRl\.:lAProject Management4CO/llnC/25/S6/INflInternational finance4DSE-3 (Group-B)4DSE-4 (Group-B)4SEMESTER  - VII (WITII RESEARCII)Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S7/MVDAMulti-Variate Data Analysis4CO/UBC/25/S7/TPAMTax Planning and Management4CO/UBC/25/S7/STMAStrategic Management4CO/UBC/25/S7/QUREQualitative Research4CO/UBC/25/S7/ERRWEthics in Research and Report Writing4
SEMESTER  - VII (WITHOUT  RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S7/MVDAMulti-Variate Data Analysis4CO/UBC/25/S7/TPAMTax Planning and Management4CO/UBC/25/S7/STMAStrategic Management4CO/UBC/25/S7/ACPRAcademic Project4CO/UBC/25/S7/INCESwayam/Moocs/ Industry Certificates4SEMESTER  - VIII (WITH RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S8/DISSDissertation/ Research Project12SEMESTER - VIII (WITHOUT RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S8/INBAInvestment Banking4CO/UBC/25/S8/ENRPEnterprise Resource Planning4CO/UBC/25/S8/INBUInternational Business4CO/UBC/25/S0/SUIPInternship2Group ACourse CodeCourse NameCredit
CO/UBC/25/SS/SAPMSecurity Analysis & Portfolio Management4CO/UBC/25/S5/FISAFinancial Statement Analysis4CO/UBC/25/SS/INRMlnsunmce & Risk Management4CO/UBC/25/SS/A.CSTAccounting Standards4Group BCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S6/EAACEmerging areas in Accounting4CO/UBC/25/S6/SCMAStrategic Cost Management4CO/UBC/25/S6/FIDEFinancial Derivatives4CO/UBC/25/S6/CORECorporate Restructuring4
B. Com (HONS.) FINANCE (4 YEARS PROGRAMME)



SEMESTER - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/SJ/flACIfinancial Accounting-I4CO/Ul3C/25/Sl /13ULA13usiness Law4CO/UBC/25/SJ/PRMGPrinciples of Management4CO/UBC/25/S1/BUMABusiness Mathematics4CO/UBC/25/SI/ENGLIEnglish-I2CO/UBC/25/SI/ENSTEnvironmental Studies2CO/UBC/25/SI/COENCommunity Engagcmcnt-NSS/NCC2SEMESTER - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S2/FJAC2tinancial Accounting-JI4CO/I.JRC/25/S2/COACCost Accounting4CC)/UBC/25/52/PC)MKPrinciples of Marketing4CO/UBC/25/S2/BSTABusiness Statistics4CO/UflC/25/S2/ENGL2English-II2CO/UBC/25/S2/CAFBComputer Application for Business2CO/UBC/25/S2/UNHVUniversal Human Values2SEMESTER - ITICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S3/FJNMFinancial Institutions and Markets4CO/UBC/25/S3/MAACMangcmcnt Accounting4CO/UBC/25/S3/MIECMicro Economics4CO/UBC/25/S3/ECCAEthics, Governance and Sustainability4CO/UBC/25/S3/IOHRIntroduction to OB & HR2CO/UBC/25/S3/EGASlxommcrcc and Computerised Accounting2CO/UBC/25/S3/HEWEHealth and Wellness2
SEMESTER - IV
Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S4/COLACorporate Laws4CO/l/8C/25/S4/FIMAIFinancial Management-I4CO/UBC/25/S4/MAECMacro Economics4CO/l/BC/25/S4/REMEResearch Methodology4CO/Ul3C/25/S4/ENDEEntrepreneurship Development2CO/UBC/25/S4/SOSKSoft Skills3CO/l/BC/25/S4/DTESDigital &Technological Solutions2SEMESTER -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/SS/COACCorporate Accounting4CO/l/BC/25/SS/DITADirect Ta.xcs4CO/lJBC/25/S5/FIMA2Financial Management-II4CO/UllC/25/S5/COllACommercial Hanking4DSE-1 (Group-A)4DSE-2 (Ciroup-A)4SEMESTl::ll - VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/URC/25/S6/INTAIndirect Taxes4CO/UBC/25/S6/AUASAuditing and Assurances Services4CO/l/BC/25/S6/PRMAProject Management4CO/URC/25/S6/JNFIInternational Finance4DSE-3 (Group-B)4DSE-4 (Group-B)4SEMESTER - VII (WITH RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S7/MVDAMulti-Variate Data Analysis4CO/l/8C/25/S7/TPAMTax Planning and Management4CO/UBC/25/S7/STMAStrategic Management4CO/UBC/25/S7/QUREQualitative Research4CO/UBC/25/S?/ERRWEthics in Research and Report Writing4
SEMESTER - VII (WITHOUT RESEARCH)
Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S7/MVDAMulti-Variate Data Analysis4CO/UBC/25/S7/TPAMTax Planning and Management4CO/UBC/25/S7/STMAStrategic Management4CO/UBC/25/S7/ACPRAcademic Project4CO/UBC/25/S7/INCESwayam/MOOCS/ Industry Certificates4SEMESTER - VITI (WITH RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S8/DISSDissertation/ Research Project12SEMESTER - VIII (WITHOUT RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S8/INBAInvestment Banking4CO/lJBC/25/S8/ENRPEnterprise Resource Planning4CO/UBC/25/S8/INBUInternational Business4CO/UBC/25/S0/SUIPInternship2Group ACourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S5/SAPMSecurity Analysis & Portfolio Management4CO/UBC/25/S5/FISAFinancial Statement Analysis4CO/UBC/25/SS/INRMInsurance & Risk Management4CO/UBC/25/SS/FMUEFinancial Modelling using Excd4Group BCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S6/fllSFixed Income Securities4CO/UBC/25/S6/FIDEFinancial Derivatives4CO/UBC/25/S6/FAPRFinancial Analysis Using Python & R4CO/lJBC/25/S6/FAAIFinancial Advising & Alternatives Investment4
B. Com (HONS.) ACCOUNTING
(3 YEARS PROGRAMME)



TERM - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/22/S I/ENGEnglish2CO/UBC/22/S I/FA IFinancial Accounting-I6CO/UBC/22/SJ/l'MPrinciples of Management6CO/UBC/22/S1/BMABusiness Mathematics6CO/UBC/22/SI/PMTPrinciples of Marketing4TERM - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/22/S2/EVSEnvironmental Studies2CO/UBC/22/S2/BLBusiness Law6CO/UBC/22/S2/FMFinancial Management6CO/UBC/22/S2trlSTBusiness Statistics6CO/UBC/22/S2/0BHRIntroduction to OB& HR4TERM -IIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/U13C/22/S3/FIMFinancial Institutions and Markets6CO/UBC/22/S3/FA2financial Accounting-II6CO/UBC/22/S3/CMA ICost & Management Accounting-I6CO/UBC/22/S3/CABComputer Application for Business4CO/UBC/22/S3/MJ::CIManagerial Economics-I6TERM -IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/22/S4/BNKBanking6CO/UBC/22/S4/DTLDirect Tax Law6CO/UBC/22/S4/ECAE-commerce and Computerized Accounting6CO/UBC/22/S4/EGSEthics, Governance and Sustainability4CO/UBC/22/S4/MEC2Managerial Economics-II6

TERM -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/22/S5/EDEntrepreneurship Development6CO/UBC/22/S5/FM2Financial Management-II6CO/UBC/22/SS/SAPMSecurity Analysis & Portfolio Management6DSE-1(Any one from Gr.A)DSE-2(Any one from Gr.A)TERM -VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/22/S6/IFInternational Finance6CO/UBC/22/S6/DERDerivatives4CO/UflC/22/S6/CLCorporate Laws6DSE-3(Any one from Gr.B)6DSE-4(Any one from Gr.B)6Group ACO/UflC/22/S5/IRMInsurance & Risk Management6
CO/UBC/22/S5/ASFRAccounting Standards and Corporate Financial Reporting
6CO/URC/22/S5/SAPMSecurity Analysis & Portfolio Management6CO/UBC/22/SS/MRf-IMarketing Research6CO/UBC/22/S5/GDTBGrouo Dvnamics & Temn Buildin116Groull nCO/UBC/22/S6/DERDerivatives6CO/UBC/22/S6/FLLFundamentals of Labour Laws6CO/UflC/22/S6/FSAFinancial Statement Analysis6CO/UBC/22/S6/RMRum! Marketing6
B. Com (HONS.) FINANCE (3 YEARS PROGRAMME)



TERM - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/22/SI/ENGEnglish2CO/UBC/22/S I/FAIFinancial Accounting-I6CO/UBC/22/SI/PMPrinciples of Management6CO/UBC/22/S1/BMABusiness Mathematics6CO/IJBC/22/S I/PMTPrinciples of Marketing4TERM - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/22/S2/EVSEnvironmcnlal Studies2CO/UBC/22/S2/BLBusiness Law6CO/UBC/22/S2/FMFinancial Management6CO/UBC/22/S2/BSTBusiness Statistics6CO/IJBC/22/S2/OBIIRIntroduction to OB& IIR4TERM - IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/22/S3/FIMFinancial Institutions and Markets6CO/UBC:/22/S3/FA2Financial Accounting-II6CO/UBC/22/S3/Cl'v1AlCost & Management Accounting-I6CO/IJTlC/22/S3/CABComputer Application for Business4CO/UBC/22/S3/MECIManagerial Economics-I6TERM -IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/22/S4/8NKBanking6CO/UBC/22/S4/DTLDirect Tax Law6CO/UBC/22/S4/ECAE-commerce and Computerized Accounting6CO/UBC/22/S4/EGSEthics, Govemance and Sustainability4CO/UBC/22/S4/MEC2Managerial Economics-II6
TERM -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/22/S5/EDEntrepreneurship Development6CO/UBC/22/S5/CACCorporate Accounting6CO/IJBC/22/S5/ITLIndirect Tax Laws4DSE-i(Any one from Gr.A}DSE-2(Any one from Gr.A)TERM - VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/22/S6/CLCorporate Laws6CO/UBC/22/S6/AASAuditing and Assurance Services6CO/UBC/22/S6/IFInternational Finance4DSE-3(Any one from Gr.B)DSE-4(Any one from Gr.B)Course CodeCourse NameCreditGroup ACO/IJBC/22/S5/IRMTnsunrnce & Risk Management6CO/U13C/22/S5/ITLIndirect Tax Laws6CO/UBC/22/S5/MRHMarketing Research6CO/UBC/22/SS/CACCorporate Accounting6CO/IJflC/22/S5/G r>TflGroup r>ynamic.s & Team Building6Group  BCO/UBC/22/S6/FSAFinancial Statement Analysis6CO/UflC/22/S6/FLLFundamentals of Labour Laws6CO/UBC/22/S6/AASAuditing and Assurance Services6CO/UBC/22/S6/RMRural Marketing6
B. B. M (HONS.) HR (4 YEARS PROGRAMME)





SEMESTER - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/Ul:lM/25/S 1/l'IACIPrinciples of Marketing4CO/UBM/25/S1/PRMAPrinciples of Management4CO/UBM/25/Si/PRMGFinancial Accounting-I4CO/UBM/25/S1/BUMABusiness Mathematics4CO/Ul3M/25/S I/ENGL IEnglish-I2CO/UBM/25/S1/ENSTEnvironmental Studies2CO/UBM/25/Si/COENCommunity Engagement-NSS, NCC2SEMESTER  - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/U13M/25/S2/13STAContempora,y Marketing Practices4CO/lJ BM/25/S2/CMPRIntroduction to OB & 11R4CO/Ul:lM/25/S2/lOHRFinancial Management4CO/UBM/25/S2/FIMABusiness Statistics4CO/UBM/25/S2/ENGL2English-II2CO/UBM/25/S2/CABUComputer Application for Busioess2CO/lJBM/25/S2/lJNI IVUniversal l luman Values2SEMESTER - IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/25/S3/HPTAHR Planning and Talent Acquisitions4CO/UBM/25/S3/COBEConsumer Behaviour4CO/UBM/25/S3/MIECManagerial Economics (Micro)4CO/UBM/25/S3/ENDEEthics, Governance and Sustainability4CO/UBM/25/S3/EGSUEntrepreneurship Development2CO/UBM/25/S3/DVPBData Visualisation with Power BI2CO/UBM/25/S3/HEWEHealth and Wellness2
SEMESTER - IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/25/S4/SEMAServices Markeling4
CO/UBM/25/S4/0RLD
Organizational Learning and Development
4CO/UBM/25/S4/MAECManagerial Economics (Macro)4CO/UBM/25/S4/REMEResearch Methodology4CO/UBM/25/S4/BULABusiness Law2CO/UBM/25/S4/SOSKson Skills3CO/UBM/25/S4/DTESDigital & Technological Solutions2SEMESTER  -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBlvl/25/S5/PEMAPerformance Management4
CO/UBM/25/SS/CMODChange management and Organization Development
4CO/UBM/25/SS/KNMAKnowledge Management4CO/UBM/25/SS/FIJLEFundamentals of Le.adership4OSb-1 (Anyone from Group A)4DSE-2 (Anyone from Group A)4SEMESTER - VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/IJBM/25/S6/FLLAFundamental of Lahour Laws4CO/UBM/25/S<,/( lDTB(lroup Dynamic and Team Building4CO/UBlvl/25/S6/LEDELeadership Development4CO/UBM/25/S6/0SDEOrganization Structure and Design4DSE-3 (Anyone from Group B)4DSE-4 (Anyone from Group 13)4SEMESTER-Vll(WITH	RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/25/S7/MVDAMulli-Variate Data Analysis4CO/UBM/25/S7/QUREQualitative Research4CO/UBM/25/S7/EXREExperimental Research4CO/UBM/25/S7/SADEScale Adaptation and Development4CO/UBlvl/25/S7/ERRWEthics in Research and Report Writing4

SEMESTER-Vll(WITHOUT	RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/25/S7/ADSTAdvanced Statistical Tools4CO/UBM/25/S7/STHRStrategic HRM4
CO/UBM/25/S7/CARM
Compensation and reward management
4CO/UBM/25/S7/ACPRAcademic Project4
CO/UB!\IV25/S7/INCE
Swayam/MOOCs/Industry Certificates
4SEMESTER-Vlll(WITII	RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBC/25/S8/DJSSDisseltation/ Research Project12SEMESTER-VIII(WITHOUT	RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBW25/S8/HRANHR Analytics4CO/UBM/25/S8/HRACl·IR Accounting4CO/UBM/25/S8/IN1-1RInternational HRM4CO/UBC/25/S0/SUII'Internship2Group ACO/UBM/25/S5/IA ERIndustrial and Employment Rclatioo4CO/UBM/25/S5/EMBREmployer Branding4CO/UBM/25/S5/CRJNCreativity & Innovation4Group BCO/UBW25/S6/TEPETechnology and People4CO/UBW25/S6/HRMIHRMIS4CO/UBM/25/S6/LAECL<1bour Economics4
B. B. M (HONS.) MARKETING (4 YEARS PROGRAMME)



SEMESTER  - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/25/S 1/FIACIPrinciples of Marketing-4CO/UBM/25/SI/PRMAPrinciples of Management4CO/UBM/25/S1/PRMGFinancial Accounting-I4CO/UBM/25/S1/BUMABusiness Mathematics4CO/UBM/25/S I/ENGL!English-I2CO/UBM/25/S I/ENSTEnvironmental Studies2CO/UBM/25/SI/COENCommunity Engagement-NSS/NCC2SEMESTER - IICourse CodeCourse  NameCreditCO/UBM/25/S2/BSTAContemporary Marketing Practices4CO/UBM/25/S2/CMPRIntroduction to OR & HR4CO/U13M/25/S2/IOIJRFinancial Management4CO/UBM/25/S2/FIMABusiness Statistics4CO/UBM/25/S2/ENGL2English-ll2CO/UBM/25/S2/CABUComputer Application for Business2CO/UBM/25/S2/UNHVUniversal Human Values2SEMESTER -111Course CodeCourse  NameCreditCO/UBM/25/S3/Hl'lAHR Planning and litlent Acqusitions4CO/UBM/25/S3/COBEConsumer Behaviour4CO/UBM/25/S3/MIECManagerial Economics (Micro)4CO/UBM/25/S3/EGSUEthics, Governance and Sustainability4CO/UBM/25/S3/ENDEEntrepreneurship Development2CO/UBM/25/S3/DVPBData Visualisation with Power Bl2CO/UBM/25/S3/HEWEHealth and Wellness2
SEMESTER - IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/25/S4/SEMAServices Marketing4CO/UBM/25/S4/0RLDOrganizational Leaming and Development4CO/UBM/25/S4/MAECManagerial Economics (Macro)4CO/UBtvV25/S4/REMEResearch Methodology4CO/UBW25/S4/BULABusiness Law2CO/UBM/25/S4/SOSKSoft Skills3CO/UBM/25/S4/DTESDigital & Technological Solutions2SEMESTER -VCourse CodeCourse  NameCreditCO/UBW25/S5/SELASelling Lab4CO/UflM/25/S5/PRMAProduct Management4CO/UBM/25/SS/MAANMarketing Analytics4CO/UBM/25/S5/RLMARurnl Marketing4DSE-1 (Group-A)4DSE-2 (Group-A)4SEMESTER  - VICourse CodeCourse Name.CreditCO/UBtvV25/S6/IMCSIMC Strategy4CO/UBM/25/S6/BMANBrand Management4CO/UflM/25/$6/J)fMADigital Marketing4CO/lJBM/25/86/DISMDistribution Management4DSE-3 (Group-B)4DSE-4 (Group-B)4SEMESTER-VII(WITH	RESEARCH)Course CodeCOUl'SC NameC,·editCO/UBM/25/S?/MVDAMulti-Variate Data Analysis4CO/UBM/25/S7/QUREQualitative Research4CO/UBW25/S7/EXREExperimental Research4CO/UBW25/S7/DTMADesign Thinking in Marketing4CO/UBtvV25/S7/ERRWEthics in Research and Report Writing4
SEMESTER-VII(WITHOUT	RESEARCH)
Course CodeCourse NameCredit
CO/UBM/25/S7/SGTM
Strategic Marketing and GTM (Go to Market)
4CO/UBM/25/S7/DTMADesign Thinking in Marketing4CO/UBM/25/S7/ADSTAdvanced Statistical Tools4CO/UBM/25/S7/ACPRAcademic Project4CO/UBM/25/S7/TNCESwayan\/MOOCS/1ndustry Certificates4SEMESTER-Vlll(WITII	RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditDi sertation/ Rese,irch Project12SEMESTER-VIIl(WITHOUT	RESEARCH)Course CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/25/S8/MTIll.J5Marketing 5.0: Technology for Humanity4CO/UBM/25/S8/OCJ-IMOmni-Channel Management4CO/UBM/25/S8/INMAInternational Marketing4CO/UBM/25/S0/SUIPInternship2Group ACO/UBM/25/S5/CRMACRM4CO/UBM/25/S5/CIMPConsumer Insight and Marketing Practices4CO/UBM/25/S5/NEMANeuro-Marketing4CO/UBM/25/S5/SEMASports and £vent Marketing4Group 8CO/UfiM/25/S6/MA RMMarketing Metrics4CO/UBM/25/S6/BTBMB2B Marketing4CO/UBM/25/S6/SDGMSDG and Marketing4CO/UBM/25/S6/PMSTPricing Management and Strategy4
B. B. M (HONS.) HR (3 YEARS PROGRAMME)





TERM - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/22/S I/ENGEnglish2CO/UBM/22/S I/FA IFinancial Accounting-I6CO/UBM/22/S I/PMPrinciples of Management6CO/UBM/22/S I/BMABusiness Mathematics6CO/UBM/22/S1/l'MTPrinciples of Marketing4TERM -IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/22/S2/EVSEnvironmental Studies2CO/UBM/22/S2/BLBusiness Law6CO/UBM/22/S2/FMFinancial Management6CO/UBM/22/S2/BSTBusiness Statistics6CO/UBl'vf/22/S2/OBHRIntroduction to OB& HR4TERM -IIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/22/S3/CABComputer Application for Business4CO/UBM/22/S3/MEC IManagerial Economics-I6CO/lJ!lM/22/S3/IIPTAIIR Planning & Talent Acquisition6CO/UBM/22/S3/IOSIndividuals in Organisation6CO/UBl'vf/22/S3/RMResearch Methodology6TERM - IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/22/S4/EGSEthics, Governance and Sustainability4CO/U8M/22/S4/MEC2Managerial Economics-TI6CO/UBM/22/S4/SSPSoft Skill and Personality Development6CO/UBM/22/S4/POMProduction and Operations Management6CO/UBM/22/S4/TDTraining and Development6







TERM -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM22/SS/EDEntrepreneurship Development6CO/UBM/22/S5/GDTBGroup Dynamics & Team Building6CO/UBM/22/S5/PEMAPerfonnance Management4DSE-1(Any one from Gr.A)6DSE-2(Any one from Gr.A)6TER1"1 - VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/22/S6/FLLFundamentals of Labour laws6CO/UBM/22/S6/IERIndustrial and Employment Relations6CO/UBM/22/S6/0SDOrganisation Structure and Dcsif,'114DSE-3(Any one from Gr.B)6DSE-4(Any one from Gr.B)6(jroun ACO/UBM/22/S5/IRMInsurance & Risk Mana!?cmcnt6
CO/UBM/22/S5/ASCFRAccounting Standard and Corporate financial Reporting
6CO/lJBM/22/SS/FM-IIFinancial Management-II6
CO/UBM/22/S5/CMODChange. Management and Organization
Development
6(hour, BCO/UBM/22/S6/CRMCompensation and Reward Management6CO/UBM/22/S6/AASAuditing and Assurance Services6CO/UBM/22/S6/IFInternational Finance6
B. B. M (HONS.) MARKETING (3 YEARS PROGRAMME)



TERM -ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/22/S I/ENGEnglish2CO/UBM/22/S1/FAIFinancial Accounting-I6CO/UBM/22/SI/PMPrinciples of Management6CO/UBM/22/SI/BMABusiness Mathematics6CO/UBM/22/S1/PMTPrinciples of Marketing4TERM-IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/22/S2/EVSEnvironmental Studies2CO/UBM/22/S2/BLBusiness Law6CO/U13M/22/S2/FMFinancial Management6CO/UBM/22/S2/BSTBusiness Statistics6CO/UBM/22/S2/OBHRIntroduction 10 OB& HR4TERM-IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/22/S3/CABComputer Application for Business4CO/UBM/22/S3/MECIManagerial F.conomies-16CO/UBM/22/S3/RMResearch Methodology6CO/UBM/22/S3/SMServices Marketing6CO/l/RM/22/S3/CRConsumer Behaviour6TERM-IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/22/S4/EGSEthics, Governance and Sustainability4CO/UBM/22/S4/MEC2Managerial Economics-II6CO/UBM/22/S4/SSPSoft Skill and Personality Development6CO/UBM/22/S4/POMProduction and Operations Management6CO/UBM/22/S4/DMDistribution Mangement6
TERM-VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM22/S5/EDEntrepreneurship Development6CO/UBM/22/S5/SLBSelling Lab6CO/UBM/22/S5/MANMarketing Analytics4DSE-l(A1ly one from Gr.A)6DSE-2(Any one from Gr.A)6TERM-VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCO/UBM/22/S6/RTMRetail Marketing6CC)/UBM/22/S6/MCC)Marketing Communication6CO/UBM/22/S6/RUMRural Marketing4nsr 3(Any one from Gr.fl)6DSE-4(Any one from Gr.B)6Group ACO/UBM/22/S5/SCMSupply Chain Management6CO/UBM/22/S5/CRi\JlACustomer Relationship tvfanagcmcot6CO/UBM/22/S5/IRMInsurance & Risk Management6CO/UBM/22/S5/ACFRAccounting Standard and Corporate Financial Reporting
6CO/Ul:IM/22/S5/l'M-llFinancial Management-ll6Group BCO/UBM/22/S6/DMDigital Marketing6CO/UBM/22/S6/BMBrand Management6CO/UBM/22/S6/FLLFundamentals of Labour Laws6CO/Ul:IM/22/S6/AASAuditing and Assurance Se,vices6CO/UBM/22/S6/IFInternational Finance6
B.TECH. (HONS.) COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING



SEMESTER-	ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCS/UCS/25/S1/BEEBasic Electrical and Electronics4CS/UCS/25/Sl/PCPrognunmi.ng in C4CS/UCS/25/S1/EGDEngineering Graphics and Design2CS/UCS/25/S1/EM1Engineering Mathematics I4CS/UCS/25/S1/EPEngine-ering Physics3CS/UCS/25/S1/ECEnglish Communication2CS/UCS/25/Sl/BEELBasic Electrical and Electronics Lah1CS/UCS/25/S1/PICLProgramming in C LabISEMESTER-  ITCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCS/UCS/25/S2/DELCDigital Electronics and Logic Circuits4CS/UCS/25/S2/00PJObject Oriented Programming with Java4CS/lJCS/25/S2/DASTData Structures4CS/UCS/25/S2/EWEngine,ering Workshop2CS/UCS/25/S2/EM2Engineering  Mathematics  IT4CS/lJCS/25/S2/MBModem Biology3CS/UCS/25/S2/ESEnviromnental Studies2CS/UCS/25/S2/DELLDigital Electronics and Logic Circuits Lab1CS/lJCS/25/S2/0P.TLObject Oriented Programming with Java Lah1CS/UCS/25/S2/DASLData Structtu-e LabISEMESTER-  ITTCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCS/UCS/24/S3/PSUPProblem Solving Using Python4CS/UCS/24/S3/COARComputer Organization and Architecture4CS/UCS/24/S3/FLATFormal Language and Automata Theory4CS/UCS/24/S3/PRSTProbability & Statistics4CS/UCS/24/S3/TE\VRTechnical \Vriting3CS/UCS/24/SJ/COlNConstitution of India2CS/UCS/24/S3/ITWOTT \Vorkshop2CS/UCS/24/S3/PSPLProblem Solving Using Python LabICS/UCS/24/S3/COALComputer Organization and Architecture LabI

SEMESTER-	IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditCS/UCS/24/S4/DMSDatabase Manage1nent Syste111s4CS/UCS/24/S4/0PSYOperating Systems4CS/UCS/24/S4/CONEComputer Networks4CS/UCS/24/S4/WETEWeb Technology4CS/UCS/24/S4/l)IMADiscrete Mathematics4CS/UCS/24/S4/0BOrganizational Behavior2CS/UCS/24/S4/DMSLDatabase Management Systems LabICS/UCS/24/S4/0SYLOperating Systems Lah1CS/UCS/24/S4/CNELComputer Networks Lab1CS/UCS/24/$4/WTELWeb Technology LabISEMESTER-  VCourse CodeCourse Na111eCreditCS/UCS/23/$5/ARJNArtificial lntclligcncc4CS/UCS/23/S5/ADANAlgorithm Design and Analysis4I. CS/UCS/24/S5/D\VDM
2. CS/UCS/24/S5/PDCOI. Data \Varehousing and Data Mining,
2. Parallel and Distributed Computing41. CS/UCS/24/$5/WSNE,
2. CS/UCS/24/SS/TTCO1. \\/ircless Sensor Network,
2. Tnfonnation Theory and Coding
4CS/UCS/22/$5/0TOptimization Techniques4CS/UCS/23/S5/ ADELAlgorithm Design LabICS/UCS/23/SS/CP ICapstone Design I2SHM FSTP.K-	VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCS/UCS/23/S6/MALEM;1chine Leaming4I. CS/UCS/24/S6/NLPR,
2. CS/UCS/24/$6/CNSE1. Natural Language- Proce-ssing,
2. Cryptography and network security4I. CS/UCS/24/S6/BDAN
2. CS/UCS/24/S6/CVIP1. Big-data Analytics
2. Computer Vision and Image Processing41. CS/UCS/22/$6/SNA,
2. CS/UCS/22/S6/CCD1. Social Network Analysis,
2. Cloud Computing and Deployment4CS/UCS/22/S6/CCDCloud Computing and Deployment4CS/UCS/23/S6/MTSManagement Information Systems3CS/UCS/23/S6/MALLMachine Learning LabICS/UCS/23/S6/CP2Capstone Design II2CS/UCS/23/S6/CVComprehensive Viva2CS/UCS/23/S6/MOOCIMOOCS 14
SEMESTER- VIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCS/UCS/22/S7/SOENSoftware Engineering4I. CS/IJCS/22/S7/DELE,
2. CS/UCS/22/S7/INTHI. Deep Learning,
2. loT4I. CS/UCS/22/S7/SOCO,
2. CS/IJCS/22/S7/BLTEI. Soft Computing,
2. Blockchain Tcchnolo<!v4CS/UCS/22/S7/JNREJnfonnation Retrieval4I. CS/UCS/22/S7/ENSU,
2. CS/UCS/22/S7/CLETI. Entrepreneurship & Start-up
2. Cyber Laws and Ethics4CS/UCS/22/S7/TI11Thesis I3CS/UCS/22/S7/JSInternship Seminar2SEMESTER-  VIIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditCS/UCS/22/S8/MOOC2MOOCS II4CS/UCS/22/S8/THES2Thesis II10
B.A. LL. B (HONS.)





SEMESTER  - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/UL!/25/S!/CECommunicative English2LW/ULl/25/S 1/IPSIntroduction To Political Science4LW/ULl/25/Sl/LTLaw Of Torts4LW/UL!/25/SJ/LHLegal & Constitutional History4LW/ULl/25/S 1/LMLegal Method4LW/ULl/25/Sl/SOSSociology4SEMESTER  - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/ULl/25/S2/CLIConstitutional Law4LW/UL!/25/S2/ECO!Economics-I4LW/ULl/25/S2/GEGeneral English2LW/ULl/25/S2/LCILaw Of Contract-I4LW/ULl/25/S2/LTC2Law Of Torts & Consumer Protection Act-II4LW/ULl/25/S2/SSISociology & Social Issues4SEMESTER  - IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/UL I /24/S3/CL2Constitutional Law-IT4LW/ULl/24/S3/EC02Economics- II4LW'/ULJ/24/S3/IPCIIndian Penal Code-I4LW/UL l/24/S3/IPGIntroduction To Policy & Governance4LW/ULl/24/S3/LC2Law Of Contracts-II4L\V/UL l/24/S3/PSYPsychology4SEMESTER  - IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/ULl/24/S4/BPABasic Principles Of Accounting4LW/UL l/24/S4/IPC2Indian Penal Code-II4LW/ULl/24/S4/ISInterpretation Of Statute4LW/ULl/24/S4/JPPintroduction To Political Philosophy4LW/UL l/24/S4/JURJurisprudence4LW/ULl/24/S4/PAPublic Administration4
SEMESTER  -Y
Course CodeCourse NameCreditLW/ULl/23/S5/ADRAlternative Dispute Resolution4LW/UL 1/23/SS/CPC ICivil Procedure Code-I4LW/ULl/23/S5/CRPCICriminaI Procedure Code-I4LW/ULl/23/SS/ELEnvironrnental Law4LW/ULl/23/SS/PLIPersonal Law-I4LW/UL1/23/S5rf"PlTransfer Of Property Act-I4SEMESTER -VICourse CodeCourse Na1ncCreditLW/UL1/23/S6/ALAdtninistrative Law4LW/UL l/23/S6/CPC2Civil Procedure Code-II4LW/UL1/23/S6/CRPC2Criminal Procedure Code-II4LW/ULl/23/S6/PL2Personal Law-II4LW/ULl/23/S6/PILPublic International Law4L\V/ULl/23/S6/TP2Transfer Of Property Act-II4SF.MF.STER -VIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/ULl/22/S7/BLPBao.king Law /\nd Practices-I4LW/UL1/22/S7/CLP1Company Law And Practices-I4LW/ULl/22/S7/LILJLabour & Industrial Law-I4LW/ULl/22/S?/LI:::Law Of Evidence4LW/ULl/22/S7/HRLPHuman Rights Law & Practice2LW/UL1/22/S?/AADJAffirmative Action & Discriminative Justice2LW/ULl/22/S7/CLCompetition Law2LW/UL1/22/S7/BIBankruptcy & Insolvency2L\V/ULJ/22/S7/PVPenology & Victimology2LW/ULl/22/S?/CRL<JCriminoloi,,y2SEMESTER  -VIIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/ULl/22/S8/CLP2Company Law And Practices-II4LW/ULl/22/S8/ILInsurance Law4LW/ULI/22/SR/LIL2Labour & Industrial Law-II4LW/ULJ/22/S8/PTLPrinciples Of Taxation & Law4LW/ULl/22/S8/CSPGCivil Society & Public Grievance2U,V/UL 1/22/SS/CILCitizenship & Immigration Law2LW/ULl/22/SS/ISLlnveshTient & Securities Laws2LW/ULJ/22/S8/CSRCorporate Social Responsibility2LW/ULl/22/S8/ICLlntenmtional Criminal Law2LW/ULl/22/SS/CCPComparative Criminal Procedure2
SEMESTER -IXCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLS055BA2 l-9Intellectual Property Rights4LS053BA21-9Professional Ethics & Professional Accounting4LS056BA21-9Drafling,Pleading & Conveyance4LS060BA2 l-9Private International Law4EHC0l4BA21-9Writs Practice & Procedures-I2EHC015BA21-9Writs Practice & Procedures-Ii2EHC016BA21-9Corporate Governance2EHC017BA21-9International Trade Law2EIIC0 l813A2 l-9Forensic Science2EHC019BA21-9It Offenses2SEMESTER  -XCourse CodeCOUl'Se NameCreditLS057BA21-I0Moot Court Exercise & Internship4LS058BA21-10Dispute Resolution & Legal Aid4LS059BA21-10Dissertation4EC00 I BA21-I 0Public Interest Litigation2EC004BA2 l-l0Unlawful Activities Prevention Act-20192EC005BA21-!0Right To Infonnation2EC008flA21-10The Fugitive Economic Offenders Act-20182EHC02I BA2l-l0Gender Justice & Feminist Jurisprudence2EHC021BA21-10Interpretation Of Statutes & Principles Of Legislation2EIIC022BA2I-I0Information Technology Law2EHC023BA21-I0Mergers & Acquisition2EHC0248A21-10Offenses Against Child & Juvenile Offense2EHC025BA2I-I0Women & Criminal Law2
B.B.A. LL.B (HONS.)





SEMESTER -ICourse CodeCourse Namec,·e<1i1LW/UL2/25/SI/CECommunicative English2LW/UL2/25/Sl/GPMGeneral Principles Of Management4LW/UL2/25/S I/LTLawOfTorts4LW/UL2/25/S1/LHLegal & Constitutional History4LW/UL2/25/S1/LMLegal Method4LW/UL2/25/S1/SOSSociology4SEMESTER - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/UL2/25/S2/CL1Constitutional Law4LW/UL2/25/S2/ECOIEconomics-I4LW/UL2/25/S2/GEGeneral English2LW/UL2/25/S2/LC1Law Of Contrnct -14LW/UL2/25/S2/LTC2Law Of Torts & Consumer Protection Act -II4LW/UL2/25/S2/0BOrganizational Behaviour4SEMESTER • IIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/UL2/24/S3/CL2Constitutional Law-II4LW/UL2/24/S3/EC02Economics- II4LW/UL2/24/S3/fMFinancial Management4LW/UL2/24/S3/lPC IIndian Penal Code-I4LW/UL2/24/S3/LC2Law Of Contracts -II4LW/UL2/24/S3/SMStrategic Management4SEMESTER - IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/UL2/24/S4/BPABasic Principles Of Accounting4LW/UL2/24/S4/CMDChange Management & Development4LW/UL2/24/S4/HRMHuman Resource Management4LW/UL2/24/S4/IPC2Indian Penal Code-II4LW/UL2/24/S4/ISInterpretation Of Statute4LW/UL2/24/S4/JURJurisprudence4

SEMESTER -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/UL2/23/S5/ADRAlternative Dispute Resolution4LW/UL2/23/S5/CPCICivil Procedure Code-I4LW/\JL2/23/S5/CRPCICriminal Procedure Code -14LW/UL2/23/S5/ELEnvironmental Law4LW/UL2/23/S5/PL IPersonal Law-I4LW/UL2/23/S5/TPITransfer Of Property Act -I4SEMESTER -VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/\JL2/23/S6/ALAdministrative Law4LW/UL2/23/S6/CPC'2Civil Procedure Code -II4LW/UL2/23/S6/CRJ>C2Criminal Procedure Code -II4LW/UL2/23/S6/PL2Personal Law-II4LW/UL2/23/S6/PJLPublic International Law4LW/UL2/23/S6/TP2Transfer Of Property Act -II4SEMESTER -VIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLW/UL2/22/S7/BLPBanking Law And Practices-I4LW/UL2/22/S7/CLPICompany Law And Practices -I4LW/UL2/22/S7/LJLJLabour & Industrial Law -14LW/UL2/22/S7/LELaw Of Evidence4LW/UL2/22/S7/IIRLPIluman Rights Law & Practice2LW/UL2/22/S7/AADJAffirmative Action & Discriminative Justice2LWf\JL2J22/S7/CLCompetition Law2LW/UL2/22/S7/BIBankrnptcy & Insolvency2LW/UL2/22/S7/PVPenology & Victimology2LW/UL2/22/S7/CRLOCriminology2SEMESTER -VIIICourse CodeCourse Namec,·editLW/UL2J22/S8/CLP2Company Law And Practices-II4LW/UL2/22/S8/ILInsurance Law4LW/UL2/22/S8/LIL2Labour & Industrial Law-II4LW/UL2/22/S8/PTLPrinciples Of Taxation & Law4LW/UL2/22/S8/CSPGCivil Society & Public Grievance2LW/UL2/22/S8/CILCitizenship & Immigration L<tw2
LW/UL2/22/S8/ISLInvestment & Securities Laws2LW/UL2/22/S8/CSRCorporate Social Responsibility2LW/UL2/22/S8/ICLInternational Criminal Law2LW/UL2/22/S8/CCPCompanllive Criminal Procedure2SEMESTER -IXCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLS055BBA2 l-9Intellectual Prope1ty Rights4LS053BBA2 l-9Professional Ethics & Professional Accounting4LS056BBA21-9Drafting,Pleading & Conveyance4LS060BBA2 l-9Privale International Law4EHCOl488A2 l-9Writs Practice & Procedures -12EHCOJ5BBA21-9Writs Practice & Procedures -Ii2EHC016BBA21-9Corporate Govcn1ance2El-IC<)I7BBA2 l-9International Trade Law2EHCOJ8BBA21-9Forensic Science2El ICOI9!3!3A21-9It Offenses2SEMESTER -XCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLS057flflA21-10Moot Court Exercise & Internship4LS058BBA21-IODispute Resolution & Legal Aid4LS059BBA21-10Dissertation4ECOOIBBA2?10Public Interest Litigation2EC004BBA21-JOUnlawful Activities Prevention Act -20192ECOOSBBA2?10Right To Information2EC008BBA2?IOThe Fugitive Economic Offenders Act -20I82EHC02 I BBA21- I0Gender Justice & Feminist Jurisprudence2EJ-IC021BBA21-IOInterpretation Of Statutes & Principles Of Legislation2EHC022BBJ\21-10Infom1ation Technology Law2El IC023BBA21- I0Mergers & Acquisition2EHC024BBA21-IOOffenses Against Child & Juvenile Offense.2EHC025BBA21-10Women & Criminal Law2
 B.A. ENGLISH (HONS.) (4 YEARS PROGRAMME)


SEMESTER  - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLNUEN/25/S1/ILEN IIntroduction to Literature in English - I (Poet,y &
Drama)4LA/UEN/25/S I/ILEN2Imroduction to Literature in English -II (Prose &
Fiction)4LNUEN/25/S1/LITCLiterature and Cinema4LA/UEN/25/S I/UNICUnderstanding the Indian Constitution4LA/UEN/25/S 1/ENCO IEnglish Communication-I2LA/UEN/25/SI/AWCOAcademic Writing and Composition2LJ\/UEN/25/S I/COENCommunity Engagement2SEMESTER  - IICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UEN/25/S2/RPCORhetoric, Prosody & Composition4LA/UEN/25/S2/l\VENIndian Writing in English4LA/UEN/25/S2/EN.IOEnglish for Journalism4LNUEN/25/S2/IHRMIntroduction to Human Resource Management4LA/UEN/25/S2/ENC02English Communication-II2LAIUEN/25/S2/ENSTEnvironmental Studies2LNUEN/25/S2/UNHVUniversal Human Values2SEMESTER  - IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UEN/25/SJ/ICLIIndian Classical Literature4LA/UEN/25/S3/BRPD IBritish Poetry and Drama: 14th to 17th Century4LA/UEN/25/S3/tv!EGSMedia and Gender Studies4LNUEN/25/S3/FDANFundamentals of Data Analysis4LA/UEN/25/S3/ENSPEnglish for Special Purposes2LA/UEN/25/S3/TPTRTheory and Practice of Translation2LA/UEN/25/S3/HEWEHealth & Wellness2

SEMESTER  - IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UEN/25/S4/WCLIWestern Classical Literature4LA/UEN/25/S4/BRPD2British Poetry and Drama: 17th LO 18th Century4LA/UEN/25/S4/CEPRCorporate Ethics & Public Relations4LA/UEN/25/S4/ADCBAdve1tisement and Consumer Behaviour4LA/UEN/25/S4/CRWRCreative Writing2LA/UEN/2S/S4/APL!Applied Linguistics3LA/UEN/25/S4/DTESDigital & Technological Solutions2SEMESTER -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLNUEN/25/SS/SHPLShakespearean Plays4LA/UEN/25/SS/BRLI1British Literature: 18th Century4LA/UEN/25/SS/BRRLBritish Romantic Literanire4LA/UEN/2S/SS/BRLl2British Lite1ture:19th Century4LA/UEN/25/SS/LITII ILiterary Theo1y - I4LA/UJ::N/25/SS/l'YTHPsychological Theories4SEMESTER  - VICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UEN/2S/S6/llRLl3British Literature - Early 20th Centu1y4LA/UEN/25/S6/PCLIPostcolonial Literature4LA/UbN/25/S6/MbLIModem European Literature4LA/UEN/25/S6/WOWRWomen's Writing4LA/UEN/25/S6/LITH2Literary Theo1y - II4LA/lJEN/2S/S6/(iESO(iender and Society4SEMESTER - VIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UEN/25/S7/LIDILiterature of the Indian Diaspora4LA/UEN/25/S7/AMLIAmerican Literature4LA/UEN/2S/S7/AFLIAfrican Liternture4LA/UEN/25/S7/LICRLiterary Criticism4LA/UEN/25/S7/REMEResearch Methodology4LA/UEN/25/S7/MIWEModern Indian Writing in English Translation4
SEMESTER - VlllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UEN/25/SS/COLIComparative Literature4LA/UEN/25/S8/TRWRTravel Writing4LNUEN/25/S8/GRLIGreco Literature4LA/UEN/25/S8/DISSDisse11ation	12LA/UEN/25/S0/SUIPSummer Internship Programme2
B.A. ENGLISH (HONS.)
(3 YEARS PROGRAMME)



SEMESTER - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UEN/25/S1/JLEN IIntroduction to Literature in English
- I (Poetry & Drama)4LA/U EN/25/Sl /1LEN2Introduction to Literature in English
- II (Prose & Fiction)4LA/UEN/25/SI/LITCLiterature and Cinema4LA/UEN/25/SJ/UNICUnderstanding the Indian Constitution4LA/UEN/25/SI/ENCOIEnglish Communication -I2LA/UEN/25/SI/AWCOAcademic Writing and Composition2LA/UEN/25/SI/COENCommunity Engagement2SEMESTER - 11CourscCodcCourse NameCreditLA/lJEN/25/S2/RPCORhetoric, Prosody & Composition4LAIUEN/25/S2/IWENIndian Writing in English4LA/UEN/25/S2/ENJOEnglish for Journalism4LNUEN/25/S2/IHRMIotroduction t.o Human Resource Management4LA/U EN/25/S2/ENCO2English Communication -112LNUEN/25/S2/ENSTEnvironmemal Studies2LA/lJEN/25/S2/IJNIIVUniversal l luman Values2SEMESTER - IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/lJEN/24/S3/PWMPopular Writing for Media4LA/UEN/24/S3/POPYPositive Psychology6LA/UEN/24/S3/BRLBritish Romantic Literature6LAIUEN/24/S3/BL3British Literature (Early 20th Century)6LA/lJEN/24/S3/BL2British Literature:(19th Century)6
SEMESTER  - IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UEN/24/S4/MEDModem European Drama6LA/UEN/24/S4/CRWRCreative Writing4LA/UEN/24/S4/AWCAcademic Writing and Composition6LA/UEN/24/S4/ALAmerican Literature6LA/UEN/24/S4/AALAfrican American Literature6SEMESTER -VCourse C,0deCourse NameCreditLA/UEN/23/SS/WOWRWomen's Writing6LNUEN/23/S5/REMEResearch Methodology6LA/UEN/23/S5/LITHLiterary Theory6LA/UEN/23/SS/IWENIndian Writing in English6SEMESTER  - VICourse C,0deCourse NameCreditLA/UEN/23/S6/POLJPopular Literature6LA/UEN/23/S6/PCLPost-Colonial Literature6LNUEN/23/S6/LIDILiterature of the Indian Dias-porn6LA/lJEN/23/S6/DISSDissertation6
B.sc. (HONS.) IN PSYCHOLOGY (4 YEARS PROGRAMME)


SEMESTER - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UPY/25/SI/GEPYGeneral Psychology4LNUPY/25/S1/DEPYDevelopmenlal Psychology4LA/UPY/25/SI/TPYAIndian Psychology Application4LA/UPY/25/SI/SDEGSustainable Development Goals4LA/UPY/25/SI/COSK ICommunication Skills-I2LA/UPY/25/Sl/C:HDSCyber Hygiene and Digilal Safety2LA/UPY/25/S I/COENCommunity Engagement2SEMESTER	- IICourse C.-OdeCourse NameCreditLNUPY/25/S2/COGPCognitive Psychology4LA/UPY/25/S2/BIPYBio Psychology4LA/UPY/25/S2/GDT0Group Development and Team Building4LA/UPY/25/S2/MOFMMobile Film Making4LA/UPY/25/S2/COSK2Communication Skills - II2LA/UPY/25/S2/UNSOUnderstanding Self and O1hers2l.A/UPY/25/S2/UNHVUniversal Human Values2SEMESTER  - IllCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UPY/25/S3/STPYS1a1is1ics for Psychology4LA/UPY/25/S3/CEPYCognition and Experimental Psychology4LA/UPY/25/S3/COMPCommunity Psychology4LA/UPY/25/S3/SMEMSocial Media Marketing4LA/UPY/25/S3/WRMEWriting for Media2LA/UPY/25/S3/PYFAPsychological First Aid2LNUPY/25/S3/HEWEHealth and Wellbeing2
SEMESTER -IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLNUPY/25/S4/REMEResearch Methodology4LNUPY/25/S4/HEPYHealth Psychology4L/\/UPY/25/S4/CYPYCyber Psychology4L/\/UPY/25/S4/POSPPositive Psychology4LA/UPY/25/S4/DEOSDeveloping Observational Skills2LA/UPY/25/S4/LSOWListening Skills and Observation Based Report \Vriting3LA/UPY/25/S4/DTESDigital and Technological Solutions2SEMESTER  -VCourse CodeCourse Nan1cCreditLA/UPY/25/SS/IAPYlnlroduction lo Abnormal Psychology4LA/UPY/25/SS/PETHPersonality Theories4LA/UPY/25/SS/SOCPSocial Psychology4LAIUPY/25/SS/PTTUPsychological Testing and Tool Uevelopmenl4LAIUPY/25/S5/EVPYEvolutionary Psychology4T./\/UPY/25/SS/QRMRQualitative Research Methods4SRMRSTF.R	- VTCourse CodeCourse Nan,eCreditLA/U PY/25/S6/IN PYIntroduction to Ncuropsychology4LA/U PY/25/S6/PYAIPsychology and Arlifici 1l Intelligence4LAIUPY/25/S6/SCWRScientific Writing4LA/UPY/25/S6 IDICInclusiveness and Diversity in India Context4LA/UPY/25/S6/EL>PYEducational Psychology4LA/UPY/25/S6/JSPYl11troduction to Sports Psychology4SEMESTER  - VIICourse CodeCourse Nan1eCreditLAIUPY/25/S7/CPYPCounselling Psychology & Psychothernpy4L/\/UPY/25/S7/REMOBehaviour Modification4L/\/UPY/25/S?/PFMHPolicy Framework in Rehavioural & Mental Health4LA/UPY/25/S?/SCPYSchool Psychology4LA/UPY/25/S?/FOPYForensic PsycholOh'Y4SEMESTER  - VIIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UPY/25/SS/DJSSDissertation12LA/UPY/25/SS/ORBEOrganismional Behaviour4LA/UPY/25/SS/REPYRehabilitation Psychology4LA/UPY/25/SS/IHRMIntroduction to Human Resource Management4LA/UPY/25/S0/SUIPSum1ner Internship Prograrn.me2
B.sc. (HONS.) IN PSYCHOLOGY (3 YEARS PROGRAMME)


SEMESTER - ICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLNUPY/25/SI/GEPYGeneral Psychology4LA/UPY/25/SI/DEPYDevelopmental Psychology4LA/UPY/25/SI/IPYAIndian Psychology Application4LA/UPY/25/S I/SDEGSustainable Development Goals (SDGs)4LA/Ul'Y/25/SI/COSKICommunication Skills-I2LNUPY/25/S1/CHDSCybcr Hygiene and Digi1al Safety2LA/UPY/25/SI/COENCommunity Engagement2SEMESTER - IICourse CodeC'.oursc NameCreditLA/UPY/25/S2/COCiPCognitive Psychology4LA/UPY/25/S2/Bll'YBio Psychology4LA/UPY/25/S2/GDTBGroup Development and Team Building4LA/Ul'Y/25/S2/MOl'MMobile Film Making4LNUPY/25/S2/COSK2Comrnuu.icaJion Skills - II2LA/UPY/25/S2/UNSOUnderstanding Self and Others2LNUPY/25/S2/UNHVUniversal Human Values2SEMESTER - IIICourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UPY/24/S3/STPYS1aris1ics For Psychology6LA/UPY/24/S3/POPYPosi1ive Psychology6LA/UPY/24/S3/IHRMIntroduction to Human Resource Management4LNUPY/24/S3/EPIExpcrimen1al Psychology - I6SEMESTER - IVCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UPY/24/S4/SWScienlific Wriling4LA/UPY/24/S4/REMEResearch Me1hodology6LA/UPY/24/S4/GDTBGroup Dynamics and Team Building6LNUPY/24/S4/EPIIExperimental Psychology - II6




SEMESTER -VCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLNUPY/23/S5/0BOrganisational Behaviour6LA/UPY/23/SS/ICPYIntroduction to Cognitive Psychology6LA/UPY/23/SS/FOCOFoundation of Counselling6LA/UPY/23/S5/ABIAbnonnal Psychology - I6SEMESTER -VJCourse CodeCourse NameCreditLA/UPY/23/S6/PW2Project Work - II6LA/UPY/23/S6/fOPYForensic Psychology6LA/UPY/23/S6/ABP2Abnonnal Psychology - II6LA/UPY/23/S6/ABEAApplied Behavior Analysis6
SCHOOL WISE CONTACT DETAILS





Xavier Institute of ManagementPhone: 06746647 8121829, dcanbm oflicc@xim.cdu.inS.No.NameDesig11atio11Email IDPhone No.
I
Ajit Kumar
Associate Professor
ajitkuma1@xim.edu.inM: 9145751326Intercom: 717
2
Amar KJR Nayak
Professoramar@xim.c,1u.inM: 9437120280Intercom: 706
3
Amit Kumar Srivastava
Assistant Professor-IIasrivastava@}xim.edu.inM: 9793366778Intercom: 781
4
Anshuman Tripathy
Associate Professor
anshuman@xim.cdu.inM: 7980909139Intercom: 729
5
Arijit MitraAssistant Professor-I
arijit@xim.edu.inM: 8910013661Intercom: 726
6
Arun Kumar Paul
Profc:;sor
arun@xim.cdu.inM: 7381123523Intercom: 727
7
Asit Ranjan Mobanty
Professor
asit.mohanty@xim.edu. innM: 7894414730Intercom: 995
8
Avinash TripaLhi
Associate Professor
avinash@xim.cdu.inM:8793157540Intercom: 995
9
Bhaskar Basu
Professor
bhaskar@xim.edu.inM: 9438303194Intercom: 835
10
flikram Kumar flahinipati
Professor
bikram@xim.cdu.inM: 9752778135Intercom: 721II
Biresb Kumar Sahoo
Professor
biresh@xim.edu.inM: 9439343400Intercom: 735
12
Biswa Swarup Misra
Professor
biswa@xim.cdu.inM: 9438148406Intercom:895
13
Chenia RathAssistant Professor -
II
chetna@xim.edu.inM: 8763830179Intercom: 519
14
D.V. Ramana
Professor
rarnana@xim.cdu.inM: 9937022466Intercom:825
15
Debadutta Kumar Panda
Professor
debadutta@xim.edu.inM:8008934040Intercom: 767
16Francis Thomas CastelincAssociate Professorfrancis@xim.cdu.inM: 8864013593lmercom: 72417Gopal Krishna NayakProfessorgopal@xim.edu.inM: 9437023008Intercom:70518lbha KumarProfessoribha@xim.cdu.inM: 8917367573Intercom: 83419lndranilChakrabaniAdjunct Professorindranil@xim.edu.inIntercom: 836
20
Krishna Das Gupta
Professor
krishna@xim.edu.inM: 9937374783Intercom:94621Mahamaya MohantyAssistant Professor -1mahamaya@)xim.edu.inM: 9654852837Intercom:818
22
Nirali Shah
Assistant Professor
nirali@xim.edu.inM: 9836012589Intercom: 52223PratapChandra PatiAssistant Professor-Ipratap@xim.edu.inM: 9800160543Intercom: 730
24
Punyaslok Dhall
Professor
punya@.,xim.cdu.inM:9437035726Intercom:83325Prince BhatiaAssistant Professor-llprince@xim.edu.inM: 8770367108Intercom: 714
26
Punam PrasadAssistant Professor-I
punam@xim.edu.inM: 6204346367Intercom:85827Rahul ThakunaProfessorrahul@.,xim.edu.inM: 9777141250Intercom:826
28
Rajesh Panda
Professor
rajesh@xim.edu.inM: 9880807203Intercom:80529Ranjan Kumar Mohan!),  Assistant Professor-Iranjankumar@xim.edu. inM: 9013673179Intercom:820
30Ritcsh Kumar DubeyAssistant Professor-Iritcsh@xim.cdu.inM:9505890364Intercom:83531S.Senthil GaneshProfessorssganesh@xim.edu.inM: 9439933069Intercom: 747
32
Sambit Brata Rath
Assistant Professor-I
sambit@xim.edu.inM: 7008576593Intercom:852
33Sarat Kumar JenaProfessorsaratjena@xim.edu.inM: 9800126695Intercom:780
34Shridhar Kumar DashProfessorshridbar@xim.ac.inM:9937095074Intercom: 828/89835Soumya SarkarAssociate Professorsoumya@xim.edu.inM: 9830282022Intercom: 99436Smeeta MishraAdj. Professorsmeeta@xim.edu.inM: 9560265628Intercom: 745
37Soumyajyo1i DauaAssis 1nt Professor-Isoumyajyo1i@xim.edu.inM: 85J8889638Intercom: 810
38
Subha Kant l'adhi
Professor
skpadhi@xim.edu.inM: 9437007800Intercom: 832
39
Sumitra Mishra
Assistant Professor-II
surnitra@,,xim.edu.inM:8270088113Intercom: 81340WS. WilliamProfessorwinfred@xim.edu.inM:9437011830Intercom: 875
School of Human Resource ManagementPhone: 0674 2377733, deanhnn_office@xim.edu.inS.No.NameDesig11atio11Email IDPho11eNo.IAndrew DuttaProfessorandrew@xim.edu.inM: 9178964980In1crcom: 7783
2
Amp Roychowdhmy
Assis1ant Professor
arup@xim.edu.inM: 9204651932ln1ercom: 3349
3Fr. S.Antony Raj, S.J.
Lt.>ctmerstonysj@Kim.edu.inM: 9438532543ln1crcom: 78884
Kalpana SahooAssociate Professor
kalpana@xim.edu.inM:8249896148Intercom: 78355Lala1endu Kesari JenaAssociate Professorlkjena@xim.edu.inM: 9800172570Intercom: 3334
6
Mousumi Padhi
1\ssodate Professormousumi@.xim.edu.inM: 986II33944ln1crcom: 77397R. (i PriyaadarshiniProfessorpriyaadarshini@xim.edu.inM: 8525949424ln1ercom: 774I
8Sanjay Bhattacha,yyaAssistant Professor -1sanjay(q)xim.edu.inM: 7755902703Intercom: 33489Saveeta MohantyAdjunc1Facultysaveeta@Kim.edu.inM:9438200354Intercom: 7842
10
Subhra Pattnaik
Associate Professor
subhra.pattnaik@xim.edu.iM: 7381017417Intercom: 3338IISuchitra PalProfessorsuchitra@xim.edu.inM: 7894735381Intercom: 3361

School of'Rural ManagementPhone: 0674 237 7778/7762, deanrm_office@xim.edu.ins.
No.NameDesignationEmail JDPlro11eNo.IBairam BhushanAssistant Professorbalram@xim.edu.inM: 9849425208Intercom: 77422Gautam PrateekAssociate Professorprateek@xim.edu.inM:7543815366Intercom: 3372
3
andiniSarangi
Assistant Professor - 11
nandini@xim.edu.inM: 9937214582Intercom:78794Niraj KumarProfessorniraj@xim.cdu.inM: 9437012962Intercom: 7881
5
Prndeep Kumar Mishra
f\ssociate Professorpkmishrn@xim.edu.inM: 94371933088Intercom:7749
6S S SinghProfessorssingh@xim.edu.inM: 9437212805Intercom: 33327Sagarika MishraAssistant Profossorsagarika(q) xim.edu.inM: 9556270455Intercom: 77808Satyendrn Nath Mishra1'1!;.sistant Professorsaty.nm@xim.edu.inM: 9078414272Intercom:7752
9
Sashikant Khuntia
Assistant Professor - I
sashikant@xim.edu.inM:9861519192Intercom: 331810T. KumarAssociate Professortkumar@xim.cdu.inM:9178251586Intercom: 7740
11·1111u Jain
Associate Professor
tinu@xim.edu.inM: 9332604440Intercom: 3320
School of Human SettlementsPhone: 0674 2377735, dennxhs_oftic.e@xim.edu.inS.No.NameDesig11atio11Email IDPhone No.
IAnnam Sai KiranLecturerannam@xim.edu.inM:8101443949Intercom:77992ArpanPaulAssistant Professor Iarpan@x.im.cdu.inM: 7548925515Intercom:77813Atanu Chatte,jeeLectureratanu@xim.edu.inM:9662764558Intercom:33374
Jublee MazumdarAssistant Professor I
jublee(<gxim.edu.inM:9735728357Intercom:33685Kajri MisraProfessorkajri@x.im.cdu.inM: 9725075078Intercom:7707
6
Nalin Ranjan
Assistant Professor lJ
nalin@xim.edu.inM:8800527523Intercom:33477Shraddha KumarLecturershraddha@xim.edu.inM: 9560372991Intercom: 3369
8Tatl1agata ChatterjiProfessortathagata@xim.edu.inM:9494636598Intercom:7716
9
Tiyali!loseAssistant Professor I
tiyali@xim.edu.inM:9433722242Intercom: 7737
School of SustainabilityPhone: 0674 2377763, deanxsos_officc@xim.cdu.inS.No.NameDesig11utio11Email IDPlw11e No.
IAradhana BasuAssistant Professor -
lJaradbana@xim.cdu.inM:8598007405lnte.rcom:33362ArupRoyAssociate Professoraruproy@xim.edu.inM:9433793763Intercom: 77543 Devendraraj MadbanagopalAssistant Professor -1devendraraj@,xim.edu.inM: 9833966109Intercom:7848
4
ElizabethAbba
Associate Professor
cli.zabcth@xim.edu.inM:9969601630Intercom: 7756
5
Sayani DuttaAssistant Professor -
II
sayani@xim.edu.inM: 9958604487Intercom: 3331
6
Sutapa Pati
Profes.sor
sutapa.(lllti@xim.cdu.inM:8658490838Intercom:77537Tanmay KhuntiaAssistant Professor -
IItarunay@xim.cdu.inM:89861511655Intercom:33468Vikrant Vijay l'atilAssistant Professorvikrant@xim.e<lu.inM: 9969325968Intercom:7828
School of CommercePhone: 0674 237 776Ina39, deansoc_office@xim.edu.inS.No.NameDesig11atio11Email IDPlto11eNo.
IAbhimanyuSahooAssociate Professorabhimanyu@xim.edu.inM: 9124220200Intercom: 77452Ashok Kumar MishraAssistant Professorashok@xim.edu.inM: 9861128503Intercom:7750
3Anindya PaltnaikAssistant Professor -
IIaninclya@xim.cdu.inM:8902468220Intcrcom: 33074Anjali SrivastavaAssistant Professor -
[[anjali@xim.edu.inM:9670580919Intercom: 3386
5
Ankit BiswalAssistant Professor -
II
ankit@xim.edu.inM: 907878300 IIntercom:3354
6Apama Vemulapalli
Assistant Professor -Iapama@xim.edu.inM:9791073954lntc.rcom:3350
7Dcbashish Kumar SahooAssistant Professor -
11
debashishkumar@xim.edu.inM: 9758054024Intercom:33648Debi Prnsad SatapathyAssistant Professor -
IIdebiprnsad@xim.edu.inM: 9910365563Intercom:3392
9Faz,-en Rasheed A.KAssistant Professor -
II
fazeen@xim.edu.inM:9020839100Intc.rcom:7711
10
FaizAhamad
Assistant Professor -I
faiz@xim.edu.inM: 7909038077Interecom: 771211Gopal Kishna GoudaAssistant Professor -11gkgouda@xim.edu.inM: 8658136518lntercom3306
12Laxmidhar Panda
Assistant Professor II
laxmidhar@xim.edu.inM:6350028826Intercom :7825
13
Leesa Mohanty
Assistant Professor -I
leesa@xim.edu.inM: 6372057889Intercom:787414Md. Washim RajaAssistant Professor -Iwashim@xim.cdu.inM:8895865500Intercom:7779
15
P.K Mohanty
Professor
pkm@xim.edu.inM: 9437105215Intercom: 784316Sandeep Ku MohantyAssistant Professor -Isandeep@xim.edu.inM: 8337961838Intercom:7844
17Siddbartb MisraAssistant Professor -1siddbarth@xim.edu.inM: 9668894003Intercom: 7824
18Subhajit BhattacharyaAssociate Professorsubhajit@xim.edu.inM: 8908894315Intercom: 787219Sukanya PandaAssistant Pmfesso IIsukanya@xim.edu.inM: 8637356191Intercom: 3311
20
Fr.V. Arokiyadass,S.J.
Associate Professor
arockiasj@xim.cdu.inM: 9437181537Intercom: 7723/779021Vijaya BatthAssistant Professorvijaya@xim.edu.inM: 9437006081

School of CommunicationsPhone: 0674 237 7718, deancomm_office@xim.edu.inS.No.NameDesig11ationEmail IDPlto11eNo.
IAnamikaAssistant Professoranamika@xim.edu.inM: 7894466164Intercom: 3367
2
Arpita Saha
Assistant Professor I
arpita@xim.edu.inM: 7440060084Intercom: 77863i\shish Kumar DwivedyAssistant Professor-LIashishkumar@ xim.edu.inM: 9937439385Intercom: 33094
Jyoti Rajan Sahoo
Assistant Professor-I
jyotiranjan@xim.edu.inM: 7291024532Intercom:77155Nadira KhatunAssociate Profes.sornadira@xim.edu.inM: 9769475038Intercom: 7826
6
Nirmalya Baral
Lecturernirmalya@xim.cdu.inM: 9533599399Intcrcom: 33607V. Vijay KumarAssociate Professorvijayku1mm1jayan@xim.edu.inM: 9952005677Intercom: 77I9
School of Computer Science & EngineeringPhone: 0674 237 7731, deanxcse office@.dm.edu.inS.No.NameDesig11atio11Email/DPho11eNo.
IAshish KumarAssistant Professor II
ashish@xim.edu.inM:6205015853lnlercom:33762Chandan MisraAssistant Professor Ichandan@xim.edu.inM: 9800464339Intercom: 3328
3Dcvcndra Kumar YadavAssistant Professor IIdcvendra@xim.cdu.inM:79789I0321lnte.rcom: 3326
4Fr. Joshy K X, S.J.Assistant Professor IIjoshy@xim.edu.inM:8280006677Intercom:77825Pradip KunduAssistant Protessor Iphrndu(cg.xim.edu.inM: 980079811 IIntercom: 3313
6
Rudra Mohan Tripathy
Associate Professorrudramohan@xim.edu.inM:8763319836Intercom:33417Shannistha NayakAssistant Professor IIShannistha@xim.edu.inM:8763931753Intercom:3384
8Sourav MandalAssistant Professor1sourav(q) xim.edu.inM: 9836790999Intercom: 7865
9Swamp Chattopadhyay
Assistant Professor IIswarupt'@xim.edu.inM: 9641223675Intercom:3375
School of EconomicsPhone: 0674 2377767, deanxse_office@xim.edu.inS.No.NameDesig11ationEmaillDPho11e No.IBiswaranjan ParidaAssistant Professor -Ibiswaranjan@xim.edu.inM:9861208535Intercom: 3358
2
Debasmita Basu
Assistant Professor-I
debasmita@xim.edu.inM: 9176491932Intercom: 7847
3Golaka C. NathProfessorgcnatb@x.im.cdu.inM:9820511897Intercom:78804
Manasi lleraAssistant Professor-IImanasi@xim.edu.inM:9971640148Intercom: 3398
5
ParamitaMukherjee
Professor
paramita(<l)xim.edu.inM: 9433120454Intercom:33536Sayoree GooptuAssistant Professor-IIsayorce@x.im.edu.inM:8910056903lntcrcom:33917
Uttiya PaulAssistant Professor-II
uttiya@xim.edu.inM: 9836480805Intercom:3352


School of Governance and Public AffairsPhone: 0674 2377758, deansgpa office@xim.edu.in!.'.No.NameDesig11atio11Emai/1DPhone No.
I
Johny1\rokiaraj P
Assistant Professor I
johny@x.im.edu.inM: 9717856854Iotcrcom: 78772Manoj KarProfessormanoj@xim.edu.inM: 9769910766Intercom:786I
3Nisikant NayakAssistant Professor Inisikanl@xim.cdu.inM: 9489194982Intercom: 330I
4Sipra Ram
Assistant Professor IIsipra@xim.edu.inM: 8093787275Intercom: 3397
5Vaishali Singh
Assistant Professor I
vaishali@xim.edu.inM:8929873552Intercom: 7862

Xavier Law SchoolPhone: 0674 310 3374, deanxls_office@xim.edu.inS.No.NameDesig11atio11Email IDPirone No.
I
Arun SasiAssociate Professorarnnsasi@xim.edu.inM: 7368034076Intercom: 33442Birnnchi Narayan P. PandaAssociate Professorbiranchi@xim.edu.inM: 9953079450Intercom: 33733Fr. Benjamin Lakra,SJAssistant Professor IIbcojamin@xim.cdu.inM:7004602942Intercom: 7876
3
Manisha ChakrabortyAssistant Professor I
manisha@xim.edu.inM:7001124227Imcrcom: 3324
4Narayan Chandr.6arangiProfessornarayan@xim.edu.inM: 8511119113Intercom: 33775Sccmasmiti PatjoshiAssistant Professor IIsccmasmiti@xim.c<lu.inM: 9438082490Intercom: 3319
6SnehaAssistant Professor -IIsneha@xim.edu.inM: 9438655805Intercom: 3395
7Zahid Pa1we1.
Assistant Professor II
1.ahid(a)xim.edu.inM: 9861560734Intercom: 3314
School of Liberal ArtsPhone: 0674 2373624, deansla_office@xim.edu.inS.No.NameDesig11atio11Email JJ)Pho11eNo.
IFr. Bipin Kujur, S.JAssistant Professor IIbipinsj@xim.edu.inM:8754507294Intercom: 7720
2
Chinmayee Nanda
Assistant Professor I
chinmayee@xim.edu.inM: 9437501447Intercom: 3363
3
lsha ShannaAssistant Professor -II
isha@xim.edu.inM:8010461788Intercom: 33624Lourdes Vijayan RAssistant Professor Ilourdcs@xim.cdu.inM: 9487787185Intercom:33255M.AshaAssistant Professor IIasha@xim.edu.inM: 9404401297Intercom: 3383
6M.Ahdul KarimAssistant Profossor IIahdul@xim.edu.inM: 9787337879Intercom: 3396
7• aziaArifAssistant Professor IInazia@xim.cdu.inM: 7978219266Intercom:3340
8
Neb" Jha
Assistant Professor JI
neha@xim.edu.inM:9717840943Intercom: 3335
9PV Padma
Associate Profes.1or
padma(<l)xim.edu.inM:9840199720Intercom: 333910Pritha SarkarAssistant Professor -IIpritha@xim.cdu.inM: 7518034811Intercom:3394IISachidanandil'andaAssociate Professorsachidananda@xim.edu. inM: 7008753299Intercom: 332312Sudha MishraProfessorsudha@xim.edu.inM: 9926301041Intercom: 3351
13VidyaPujariAssistant Professor -Ividya@xim.cdu.inM:9437162599Intercom:3359











































































