

GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENT STUDENTS

FOR THE YEAR 2025-26
UG, PG & PhD Programmes


















XIM UNIVERSITY
BHUBANESWAR
Nijigada Kurki Campus


CONTACT NUMBERS - RESIDENCES
PG RESIDENCES
067 4-2377788
0674-2377853
PG IC-1
067 4-2377714
UG BOYS
0674-3103302
0674-237732
UG GIRLS
067 4-3103303
DIRECT CONTACT
6370704392
FOR ACCOUNTS
067 4-2377743
DISPENSARY
0674-2373381

RESIDENCE MANAGEMENT TEAM	(RMT)
Contact: rmt@xim.edu.in

1. Dr.Fr.Bipin Kumar Kujur,
S.J. Residence Prefect
E-mail:resprefect@xim.edu.in Mobile: 8754507294

2. Mr. Ranjan Kumar Swain Assistant Residence Prefect E-mail:ranjan@xim.edu.in Mobile: 9938764141

3. Mr. Julious Samantray - Assistant Residence Prefect E-mail:julious@xim.edu.in Mobile: 9937903090

4. Mr. Basanta Kumar Pradhan Assistant Residence Prefect E-mail:bpradhan@xim.edu.in Mobile: 9675514339

Caretakers:
1. Ms. Sanjuktarani Das
2. Ms. Geetanjali Behera
3. Ms. Laxmipriya Sundaray
4. Mr. AjayKumar Pradhan
5. Mr. Niranjan Mangaraj
6. Mr. Haraprasad Champati
7. Mr. Balakrushna Mishra

Dear Students,
Awarm welcome to the scenic and serene campus of XIM University. Every stage in life has its own privileges and responsibilities. At this juncture of life, you are at your peak in terms of mental, spiritual, creative and physical power. As a result, you have more responsibilities in comparison to privileges.
The manual that is in your hands contains the guidelines ofXIM University Students' Residence. It is your residence. During your stay on campus, you are encouraged to make responsible use of the facilities that are made available to you by the University. These facilities are provided to help you develop your knowledge, skills and attitude, grow as inspiring leaders, and enrich the wisdom to become socially sensitive and responsible citizens of our country.
May the time you spend in XIM University, be filled with positive experiences and may it continue to nurture the guiding principle of our University- MAGIS.

Residence Prefect resprefect@xim.edu.in

GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENT STUDENTS UG. PG & PhD PROGRAMMES
WELCOME TO STUDENTS' RESIDENCE
XIM University Bhubaneswar new campus offers programs for Undergraduate, Post-graduate and PhD students. The residence plays a significant role in developing the intellectual, social and cultural aspects of life. It is in the residence that the students coming from various parts of India and abroad find their home away from home. Hence, the objective of the XIM University residences is not only to provide adequate facilities but also to create an atmosphere conducive to forming successful, mature, socially responsible and environment- friendly global leaders. The campus discipline, guidelines and supervision are directed towards this purpose. As resident scholars, it is up to each one of you to make the best use of facilities and to help one another in achieving the objectives of your stay and to study well at XIM University.
The XIM University student residences, are primarily a community. As a community, you are expected not only to receive the benefits of the community but also to contribute towards its welfare. Learning from and contributing to enrich the culture and the spirit ofXIM University can be one of the most formative factors during your stay here. It is a period of golden years in your life. Relationships are formed that could last a lifetime. Adaptations are made that widen your flexibility. XIM University has a work culture that is informal, formative, and conducive to growth as a disciplined and a mature human being.

INTRODUCTION
On campus residence facilities are provided by the university to enhance academic performance of students. Attendance in academic sessions is compulsory for all residents while they are within the university premises.
Living in the student's residence requires you to take responsibility for your actions and their impact on the experience of others with whom you live. This makes it essential to observe certain rules and regulations and to adhere to the code of student rights and responsibilities.
Staying in the UG Residence is not mandatory for Undergraduate students. The Residence facility is a service given by the University for study and rest to the deserving outstation students coming from far-off places. Attendance in the academic sessions is mandatory for residents when they are on campus. The residence will remain closed from 9.30 AM to 4.30 PM on working days. Only residents with permission from their respective Deans and RMT are allowed to stay in the residence during this time period of 9.30 AM to 4.30 PM. Residents missing classes without permission while being in residence invite disciplinary action as per the guidelines of the residence.
RESIDENCE MANAGEMENT TEAM
The Residence Management Team (RMT) consists of:
a. The Residence Prefect
b. The Asst. Residence Prefects
Thefollowing guidelines are arranged in an alphabetical

the students residing in the residence. Violation of any rule will make the inmate liable to disciplinary action including expulsion from the residence and also from the University.
1) ALLOTMENT OF ROOMS
a) Allocation of Rooms
1. Residents shall occupy the rooms only after allotment is made by the Residence Management Team (RMT).
ii.  Room allotted to a person cannot be changed or interchanged without explicit permission from the Prefect. Such residents, if found guilty of violating residence rules, shall be expelled from the residence without any further enquiry.
111. At the time of admission of the student into the residence and at the beginning of every year, each student is required to submit the Personal Information Form duly completed in all aspects (Annexure-1).
1v.  The landline telephone with STD code and mobile phone number of the parents must be provided along with local guardian's address and mobile phone number.
v.  Correct email and contact number of the parents should also be provided & it is mandatory for UG, PG and PhD students to submit the undertaking to RMT for Fretbox Registration.
v1.  Any change of address / telephone number of the parents/ local guardian, at any point of time, has to be intimated to the Prefect in writing.

vii. No permission is granted to any (student), other than the person (student) to whom the room is allotted to stay. The room is allotted for two years of the academic session for PG and at the end of the academic session, students must handover the rooms in a good condition along with the assets provided during the time of allocation in a prescribed final residence clearance form to the residence authorities.
v111. No parent or guardian(s) of a student is permitted to enter/stay in the room allotted to the respective student.
1x. Accommodation in the residence cannot be claimed as a matter of right. Students who disturb the peace and violate the residence guideline will be asked to withdraw from the residence.
b) Room Changes
1. Unauthorized occupation of any room or exchange of rooms shall be treated as serious violation of disciplinary rules of the residence.
ii. The Residence Management Team reserves the right to change or cancel the room allotments of students in the interest of health, security, discipline, improvement of the educational environment and the general welfare of students or as needed.
c) Taking Care of Your Room
i. The room allotted to you is your room and it is your responsibility to take care of it by keeping it clean, quiet and safe. You will be creating the right atmosphere, in which you could work, rest and

ii. If rooms are found unkempt/untidy, you are liable for due fine.
111.  Each room is provided with a cot, table, fan, tube light, chair, LAN port and one wooden shelf.
1v.  If there are any additional items other than the above mentioned belongings of the University in any room, the occupant of the room shall hand them over to the Caretakers, failing which he/ she will be charged a penalty as decided by the Authority.
v. Do not paste, write, or affix any posters, paintings, putting oil stain marks, foot marks and hand marks etc on the door, walls of the room or in the common places, else fine will be imposed as decided by the management during the time of room clearance. Heavy penalty will be imposed on student/group of students indulging writing slogansor obscene drawings on the residence walls, noticeboards, rooms, and washrooms.
v1.		Do not remove any furniture, electrical fittings from  your  room.  Removal  of furniture  or furnishings may invite disciplinary action. All University furniture must be in the room and in proper condition when you move out of the residence.
vii. Students are strictly prohibited cooking inside their rooms and involving themselves into any commercial activities.
v111. The use of equipment such as electric heaters, sound systems, televisions, induction cookers, food warmers, iron box, refrigerator, cooler, table fan

etc., is strictly prohibited inside the room because no provision has been made for them. Such appliances, if found will be confiscated (will not be returned) and a fine will also be imposed.
1x. During the summer vacation/internship, if students have to leave any of their belongings in their room, they may contact the RMT for the same but must be stored at their own risk. Students are advised not to leave any valuable assets like laptops, jewelery, money, mobile ATM Cards etc.
x.  XIM University does not take any responsibility for any cash or valuables lost or stolen from your personal room.
d) Room Repairs
1. The Caretakers will assist you if you need of any repair in your room. Maintenance staff can be called only if an order for the repair is initiated through utility service log in UMS. Please report all necessary repairs to your respective R-Secs / Caretakers, so that potential problems do not become worse.
2) ABSENCE FROM THE CAMPUS/RESIDENCE
i. During the academic semesters, all the resident students are expected to be on campus and attend classes in the classroom as per the schedule. A resident who while being in the campus misses classes without permission will be asked to vacate the residence immediately. A resident may be allowed to go home only if the University holidays exceed three consecutive days.
ii. Biometric attendance protocol is compulsory for UG students. Any deviation or irregular biometric attendance may lead to the imposition of fine and

111. If you need to stay out of the residence for any reason, even if it is only for one day, you have to apply leave through Fretbox app.
1v. If it is found that you are out of your residence during the night without due permission, disciplinary action will be taken against you.
v.  If you go out of the residence, you are required to return toyour residence before 08.00 P.M. You will not be allowed to enter the main gate if you come after 8:00 P.M. If you violate this rule of coming after 9:00 P.M, you may not be allowed to enter the campus again. And it is your responsibility to take care of yourself when you are out of the campus. University will not be in anyway liable for any accidents, life and security.
v1.  You should carry your Identity Card when you go out of the campus and show it to the security guard at the main gate on your return.
vii.		Students are discouraged from arranging any picnic or outing/visit to places like sea beaches, waterfalls, reservoirs, ponds etc., where there is a potential danger to life and security of the students. Any such activity is at their own risk. Theuniversity will not be liable for anything that occurs.
v111. Students are supposed to attend the classes daily. Permission from the respective Dean is mandatory for any absence. However, if any Student is found in their rooms during class hours without attending his/her class, s/he will be penalized. A student is allowed to stay at the room in case of illness/health issues only. If so, the student has to

send an email to the concerned Dean as well as the residence authorities about his/ her sickness and absence from the class. If any student found being absent in the classes regularly (as per the information obtained, from the concerned Dean's Office), s/he will be told to vacate the residence immediately.
ix.		The main gates of the UG residences will remain closed from 10:00PM to 05:00AM every day. UG students are not allowed to go out of the residence after 10:00 PM except visiting the library till 11:00 PM with prior permission (by mail) from the RMT. To visit the library after 10:00PM you should sign the register kept at the reception and in the library. The RMT will verify both the registers of the residence and the library on the following day. If students found misusing the facility, disciplinary action will be taken against each student.
3) ACCIDENTS
XIM University is not liable for any personal accidents while driving or on outings and tours.
4) ALCOHOLIC DRINKS/DRUGS
1.  Possession and/or Consumption of alcoholic drinks any narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances (weed, ganja, marijuana, heroin, cigarettes or any other drug) coming under the definition of NDPS Act of 1985 in any form is strictly prohibited in the residence premises as well as in the campus.
ii.  Students shall not enter the residence premises in an intoxicated state and should not possess such materials in their personal rooms and personal belongings. If found suspicious, you may be

checked at the main gate by the security guards. If a student is found intoxicated with any such forbidden materials, s/he will be removed from the Student Residences/ University immediately for such action. Kindly cooperate with the security personnel.
111.  Stringent action will be taken if any resident is found to violate the above two points (4) (i) (ii), resulting in heavy penalty along with suspension/ expulsion from the residence. During the period of suspension/expulsion, s/he will not be allowed to enter the residence premises.
1v.  Depending on the case, the management reserves the right to take direct disciplinary action in this regard at any time. (See the Annexure-III).
v.  The Prefect/Asst. Prefect or any authorized person of XIM University can visit/ enter your room for verification at any point of time.
5) ASSOCIATION IN THE VICINITY
1.		Befriending neighboring people and inviting them to the campus as well as to your room is strictly prohibited.
ii. Violation of the above clause will attract disciplinary action.
6) BANK
1.	All transactions must be made through the Bank.
ii.  Extension Counters of two banks - SBI and South Indian  Bank-  areinthecampus.
111. We have 24 hours ATM facilities of SBI and South Indian Bank inside the Campus.

7) BREAKAGES
1.  In the event of any breakage, damage and loss of any furniture, fixtures and fittings inside the residences as well as in common places in the campus, the person(s) responsible for such damages will have to bear the cost, failing which the same shall berecovered from him/her as fine.
ii.  In cases where responsibilityfor such acts cannot be defined, a common fine will be imposed on all the residents.
8) CLEANLINESS & MAINTENANCE
1. Residents shall cooperate in maintaining and keeping the common areas and premises clean.
ii.  Please avoid littering and help our maintenance staff to keep the campus clean, beautiful and environment friendly.
111.  Please do not slam doors, rather close them gently and latch your room windows firmly.
1v.  Keep soiled linen out of sight.
v.  You are advised not to leave any items like paper, soap wrappers, sanitary items etc., in bathrooms. Use the dustbins provided.
v1.  Use of polythene and plastic cups are banned inside the campus.
vii. Leakages, if any, in the water coolers, geysers, basins, bathrooms, etc., should immediately be reported through UMS.
v111. Students are advised not to throw any plastic bottles, unused papers & other discarded rags in

their rooms, road, lawn area, corridors, Badminton court, Basketball Court, Volleyball court, Tennis court etc.
1x.  You are advised to clean your own bathroom/ toilets if you have been allotted a room with attached toilet & bathroom.
9) CAUTION DEPOSIT
After the successful completion of course at XIM University, your caution deposit will be transferred to your bank account once you submit the clearance certificate at the Account's office, that isduly signed from all the departments mentioned in that form. In case you are imposed with fine, the fine amount will be adjusted with the caution deposit.
10) COMMITTEES
1.	There is a Residence Secretaries Committee for UG and PG(representativesfrom different schools) for smooth functioning of the residence related to day to day matters. They are also the members of the Mess Committee. They have to function with the guidance and instructions of the	Residence Management Team. The Residence Secretaries meet the Residence Management Team headed by the Resident Prefect twice every month to take the stock of the residences.
ii.  The core members ofRSec both UG and PG should meet the Prefect once every month to take stock of the functioning of the Residences and to suggest ways to improve the quality of life.

11) CULTURAL ACTIVITIES
1.		Cultural and entertainment activities are organized by the cultural committee at various times during the year in order to enhance the family spirit of the residents and it is also a forum to exhibit their latent talents.
ii. Parties, birthday celebrations, any social or political gatherings etc, in the residences are completely banned. However, all such cultural functions are subject to the prior approval of the Prefect and their expenses will be borne by the students.
111. Use of DJ is prohibited. All the cultural events should be over by 10 PM. No permission will be given for any extension of time at any point.
1v. Use of crackers is strictly prohibited inside the campus except on the Diwali Festival or any event. On that day all the crackers should be bursted as per the suggested area only. Action will be initiated against those found bursting crackers inside the residence building.
v.  A nominal amount will be collected by the RSec core committee for residence related cultural programme and other welfare activities which is mandatory for every residents.
12) SELECTION OF RESIDENCE SECRETARIES
1.		Selections are held once a year to choose members for residence committees through a proper interview process by RMT.
ii.   Campaigning is not permitted.

13) ENERGY CONSERVATION
1.  Conservation of energy and resources is a major concern of the residences system.
ii.  Use lights only when needed. Turn off electrical equipment like electrical chargers, laptops when not in use. Use of decorative lights inside the rooms are strictly prohibited. Heavy penalty could be imposed on students found using them in their rooms.
111. Fans and lights must be switched off when the students leave their rooms.
1v.  Light must be switched off when you go to bed.
v.  Water is an essential but scarce commodity. Use water sparingly. Completely turnoff all water taps when not in use.
v1.  In case, it is noticed or brought to the knowledge of authority that fans/ lights are switched on in any locked/ latched room, a penalty will be imposed on the students residing in that room for wasting the costly energy resources.
14) GUESTS/ VISITORS
1.  Guest/s are welcome to meet you during visiting hours at the waiting lounge in each respective student residences. You are not allowed to take your guest/s to your rooms or keep them there.
ii.   Thevisiting hours are:
05.30 P.M. to 08.30 P.M. (on all working days)
10.00 A.M. to 08.30 P.M. (on Sundays & University Holidays)

111. If a guest is found in your room without prior permission, you may be asked to vacate the Residence immediately and appropriate action against you will follow.
1v.  In case the guest/s need to stay in the campus, the resident must obtain prior permission from the Registrar/ Administrative authority tostay in the University / Guest House only (if such accommodation is available for a specific period on payment basis as per the Guest House accommodation rules).
v. Any theft, breakage, damage, loss, harassment which might have occurred during your gueststay in the residence, you will be held responsible and accountable.
v1. Any student harboring any unauthorized person in the residence or in the university campus will be expelled from the residence immediately.
15) GENERAL BEHAVIOUR/DISCIPLINE
All residents are required to maintain professionalism in their behavior which is expected of students of a prestigious institution such as ours. They are expected to behave courteously and politely with everyone both inside and outside the campus.
1.  Students should be respectful, courteous and shall use appropriate language and etiquette at all times.
ii.  No circular or subscription of any form shall be taken around except with the permission of the Residence Management Team.

111.  No one should use the belongings of other students without their consent.
1v.  No association of students on the basis of religion, region, caste or creed is permitted.
v. No secret activities or meetings are permitted inside the hostel premises. For holding any meeting in the residence room or anywhere in the residence areas, prior written permission should be obtained from the Residence Management 1'eam.
v1.   Gambling of any kind is strictly prohibited.
vii. Students shall treat the residence/mess staff politely. They should not demand any special service from them.
v111. Students should refrain from any activity that is likely to infringe on the privacy of others or interfere with their studies or disturb the peace and harmony among the residents and on the campus.
1x.  Residents shall not get involved in arguments or otherwise interfere with the duties of the employees of the residence. If there is any complaint or suggestion to be made, it shall be made to the Prefect.
Residence Management Team may inspect/enter any room to verify that thestudents maintain high standards of self-discipline and to counsel them as and when needed.
x. Residence is an integral part of the university. Any action of indiscipline in the residence may also attract punishment from the University.

x1. Any student who is found to be indulging in undesirable activities such as physical assault, damage to property, or misconduct of any form, will be liable to the following punishments:
a. s/he will be expelled from the residence.
b. Besides, the cost of damage will be fully recovered from him/her together with penalty.
c. The privilege of appearing for campus interviews will be denied, whens/he reaches the final year.
d. In the above-mentioned imposition of punishment, the residence prefect has the final say.
xii. The style of dressing is what is appropriate in a Jesuit institution of higher education. We groom professionals in XIM University. All students need to be appropriately dressed at all the times within the University - authorized places (Classrooms, Library, Administrative Buildings, Academic Buildings, Laboratories, Exam Halls, Auditorium and dining spaces) in the campus. Indecent and inappropriate clothings found to be worn by any student in these places shall attract disciplinary action against the student.
x111. UG Resident must apply for a resident Identity card immediately at the time of joining the UG Residence (Annexure-IV).
xiv. UG Resident student ID card is required for identification purposes, for entering into the residences, for availing the mess facilities, in the

16) HOLIDAYS
1.	During the Puja and Christmas holidays, you may retain your rooms.
ii. During summer holidays residence will remain closed and nostudent will be allowed to stay in the residence.
111.  The residential accommodation is available to you only till the end of the academic year.
1v. If you are selected and involved in summer projects in Bhubaneswar, then the Prefect may allow you to accommodate on request at the rate fixed by the Management per day.
17) INSURANCE
1.	Personal Accident and Mediclaim Insurance Policies are mandatory for all the students.
ii. The following amount of reimbursement can be claimed on production of original documents against hospitalization for:
Personal Accident : Rs.1,00,000 (Maximum)
Mediclaim Policy : Rs. 50,000 (Maximum) For details, please contact the Insurance-in- Charge, XIM University.
18) INTERNET FACILITY
1.	All the rooms of the residence are provided with 24x7 internet facility only for study purposes and not for gaming and entertainment. Students are not allowed to share the Wi-Fi password with others/outsiders.

ii. Outsiders/visitors are not allowed to use your room for using the computer and internet facilities.
111.  Students should notscreen pirated/ unauthorized/ unlicensed movies in their computers and common rooms.
19) KEYS
Students are advised to lock the doors when they leave their room even for a short period of time. The authorities are not responsible for any loss of your personal belongings.
20) LAW AND ORDER
1.	Students cannot participate in any anti- national, anti-social or undesirable activity inside or outside the campus.
ii.  Keeping of lethal weapons like sticks, rods, guns, chains etc., in the residence rooms is strictly prohibited.
111.  No inmate shall take the law into his/her own hands. If one finds that other students are indulging in any undesirable activity or causing inconvenience or physical injury to him/ her or to the other residents, s/he should lodge a complaint in writing with the Residence Management Team.
iv. The residence cannot be considered as the hiding place for miscreants. The police authorities may enter the campus and detain anyone depending upon the severity of the offence.
v. If the students create any law and order problems outside the campus, they will be answerable to the local administration and the police personally.

v1. Students or committees are not authorized to permit any business development campaign in the residence without the prior approval of the residence authorities.
vii. The jurisdiction of XIM University is confined to the XIM University campus only.
21) WOMEN'S RESIDENCE
1.   You are not allowed to take your guests and visitors to your room. But you may meet them at the reception/lounge/ lobby.
ii.  No women are allowed to enter into the blocks/ personal rooms of boys. If found, the violators will be expelled from the residence without any inquiry.
111.  Women are allowed only in the common areas such as the Dining Hall and Multipurpose Hall for group discussions.
1v. Women's residence is out of bounds for men. In the boy's residence, girls are allowed only in the common areas such as the Reception and Multipurpose Hall for group discussions.
22) LAUNDRY
1.  You can do your own laundry or if you wish, you can get your clothes washed and pressed by dhobi/ washer men by approved local vendor.
ii. All the residences are equipped with heavy-duty washing machines. Students are required to handle the machines with care.

23) Leave availing procedure through fretbox app from the Residence
• Leave permission (planned/University declared Holidays) must be taken before 48 hours. If missing classes, the same has to be approved by the respective dean/programme officer assigned by the department of various schools which is mandatory. All leave request along with parent's consent will be approved through the FretBox app (stating actual date of leaving & returning tothe campus). After the final leave approval the student must show the approved request in the scanner (FretBox) at university main gate.
• A resident may be allowed to go home only if the University holidays exceed three consecutive days.
• In case of any emergencies, leave has to be obtained only from Residence Prefect along with producing valid evidence.
• Students must put a signature (filling the necessary details) in the Leave register before leaving & entering the residence.
• Students will be asked for explanations or may not be allowed to get into the campus if dates sanctioned /approved are not followed.

24) MEDICAL FACILITIES
1.	Adoctor is available in the campus for consultation from Mon-Saturday in between
5.30 PM to 7.00 PM.
ii.		Twofemale & one male nurse are available in the campus on all days.

111.  24 hours ambulance service is also available in the campus. The services will be provided only on an emergency situation as per the ambulance policy.
1v. Medical facilities are provided at the University dispensary for routine health problems. However, for any other treatment requiring specialist/expert medical care and treatment, the residents are supposed to make their own arrangements for treatment and to bear medical expenditure themselves.
v.  In case of an emergency, students may shift the patient immediately to a hospital and inform the Management at the earliest.
v1. A student suffering from infectious/contagious diseases will not be permitted to stay in residence.
25) MESS
1.  The mess is run by a private vendor who directly deals with the students in terms of menu (both veg & non-veg), quality, hygiene etc. To be a resident in PG and UG one has to be a mandatory member of the Student's Mess.
ii.  Ten months fee@ Rs. 4035/- per month towards minimum mess charges both for PG and UG students - it should be paid in three installments (in cash/online (with GST) directly to the mess vendor for the academic year 2025-2026.
111.   There is a Mess Committee which consists of
(i) The Residence Management Team, (ii) The Residence Secretaries of PG, UG & the mess contractor or vendor. Except the mess committee members, other students are not permitted toenter

the kitchen or store room of the mess at any point of time. The mess committee members will see to the fixingof the menu, quality/hygiene of the food and the kitchen & dining areas.
1v. The students are not permitted to take mess utensils such as plate, spoon, tumblers, etc., outside the mess area.
v. The mess is the responsibility of all. The mess committee members seek your cooperation in making the food tasty and hygienic.
vi. Members of the mess staff should not be asked to enter the residence area for any reason at any time.
vii. Employing mess staff for any work is not permitted.
v111. No food (from the mess or from outside) will be allowed to be taken into the residence or to one's room. Only the residents who because of illness, if permitted, can take food in their rooms.
1x.  If a resident is missing mess facilities for his/her personal reasons, s/he can't demand, claim and carry forward the mess fee.
x.  UG Boys and Girls have separate dining places. Girls should not enter the Boys Canteen and vice versa even for refreshments.
26) MEAL TIMINGS
PG Residence
Breakfast: 07:30 A.M. - 10:15A.M. Lunch: 12:30
P.M. - 02.30 P.M.
Dinner: 08:30 P.M. - 10.15 P.M.

UG Residence
Breakfast: 07:30 A.M. - 9:30 A.M. Lunch: 12:30
P.M. -02:30 P.M.
Dinner: 08:00 P.M. -  09:30 P.M.
1.	No meals will be served outside of these hours.
ii.  Room service is strictly prohibited. Please do not request/force the mess contractor or any of his workers or staff members for room service.
111.  However, special consideration on medical grounds, such service may be available, for the specified time as the medical emergency case may be, with the prior permission from the Prefect.
1v. Mess guidelines may change from time to time, which will be intimated through mails.
v.  Meal sharing is strictly prohibited. If anyone found sharing their meal, they are liable for fine.
27) MULTIPURPOSE HALL
1.	Respective multipurpose hall serves as a common place for recreation and entertainment for both UG, PG & PhD residents.
ii. Provisions are made there for UG, PG & PhD students for indoor games and The multipurpose hall can be used for group studies.
28) NOISE
1.   Shouting or yelling or moving furniture in a noisy way is not expected from well-behaved resident students. They are to be avoided totally out of respect for your fellow mates.

ii.  No loud music is allowed in the residence at any time. Therefore, no students are allowed to keep any speakers or woofers in their rooms. If the residence authorities find it, they could be confiscated immediately and a fine may be imposed.
111.  Strict silence shall be observed in the residence from 11.00 PM to 5.30 AM. Care should be taken at all times to ensure that music I loud talking not audible.
29) NOTICES
1.		The Notice Boards are to be used only by competent persons to give relevant information concerning their area of responsibility.
ii. Do not put up any notice on the Notice Board without signing it.
111.  Conversely, pay no attention to any notices that are notsigned.
1v.  Never remove a notice off the board nor deface it when it is still relevant. Disciplinary action will be taken against any violators.
30) PARKING
1. A resident is not allowed to keep her/his vehicle inside the campus.
31) OUTING
Students must refrain from regular outing except University declared free outing hours.

32) POST & COURIER
1.		Couriers/Post is cleared and delivered once a day in the designated area. Kindly contact the reception/store office in this regard (Basement, Administrative Building, XIM University Campus)
ii.  Courier service will be available between 4.00 PM to 5.00 PM from Monday to Friday and at 12.00 noon on Saturday.
111. The Administration may not be liable for any damage/ loss of your consignment.
33) PERSONAL PROPERTY
1.	You are advised to take enough measures to protect your personal belongings since the University cannot hold the responsibility of protecting personal property of the students.
ii.  The University will not be held liable, directly or indirectly, for the loss of your personal property due to theft, damage by fireor water, or any other cause. Please consider purchasing the appropriate equipment so that your personal belongings are well protected.
111.  Protect your valuable items by keeping your room locked. You are advised in your own interest notto keep money and other valuables in the open.
1v. Mark your personal property with engraving pens or markers so that you can permanently identify them.
v. Residence Management Team may ask the students toshift their belongings for maintenance work or during an emergency.
A cloak room type facility for the safe custody of the students' belongings at owner's risk may be arranged during such times.

vi. Individual rooms do not come under CCTV Coverage. In case a resident wishes to access CCTV footage for any loss of his / her belongings in the residences, a formal request should be submitted via email to
registrar@xim.edu.in, marking a copy to ss@xim.edu.in, registrar_office@xim.edu.in & rmt@xim.edu.in. Additionally, a fee of Rs 500 needs to be deposited in the Account's office for initiating the investigation process.
vii. Please note that loss of personal belongings such as earbuds, laptops, mobile phones etc., in academic or common areas (Classrooms, Library, Labs, Studio, Gym, Auditorium, and Playground) will not be entertained for CCTV footage.
v111. Since the use of mobile is banned in academic spaces, the responsibility of safekeeping of mobile and its accessories in the residence lies with the residents.
34) RAGGING
i. Ragging, misbehavior or harassment of any sort is strictly prohibited inside the campus.
ii. The Anti-Ragging Committee and Squad constituted by the University will take cognizance of any breach of the policy on ragging.
111. Any violation will invite serious disciplinary action including reporting to the local police. Besides, criminal proceedings will also be held as prescribed by the Supreme Court in its judgment on 16.5.2007.
For your understanding, ragging which is CRIMINAL and NON-BAILABLE offence is

defined in legal parlance as: "display of noisy, disorderly conduct doing any act which causes or is likely to cause physical or psychological harm or raise apprehension or fear, shame or embarrassment to a student in any academic Institution and includes:- Teasing, abusing, or playing practical jokes on or causing hurt tosuch student or asking the student to do any act or perform something which such students will not in the ordinary course be willing to do".
All freshers are encouraged to report incidents of ragging to the Anti-ragging Committee immediately.
Those who do not do so even when being witnesses or victims, will also be punished suitably.
When the persons committing or abetting the crime of ragging are not identified, collective punishment could be resorted to as a possible deterrent measure, as it would ensure community pressure on the potential raggers not to indulge
.	.
1n ragging.
The University and UGC norms on ragging are applicable on all students staying on campus.
35) REPROGRAPHICS
1.  A vendor having heavy-duty network printer is available in the campus for students' use. This facilitates the students to take regular printouts at a price far cheaper than the outside market.
ii. A photocopying machine is also installed in the reprographic room.

36) RESIDENT PREFECT
The role of the Prefect at XIM University is a special one. He neither censors nor polices your activities unless circumstances warrant it. While maintaining the basic spirit necessary for the smooth running of the Residences, he is devoted to the personal growth and development of each one. He is available at all times for personal as well as professional guidance. He is assisted by the Assistant Prefects for the day-to-day residence administration inside the campus.
Asst. Residence Prefects and the elected Residence Secretaries will assist him in the supervision of the residence /mess, and in enforcing discipline. Every resident inmate shall co-operate with him in the act of discharging his duties.
37) SPORTS
1.  The XIM University Campus has floodlight facilities for games like Lawn 1'ennis, Basketball and Badminton, a well- equipped Gymnasium and spacious playgrounds for volleyball, football and cricket.
ii.  The campus and its surroundings offer excellent opportunities for jogging and walking.
111.  The Sports Committee organizes tournaments both inter-class, inter-institute, etc.. All expenses on student activities are borne by the students.
iv. No games will be allowed between 10.00 PM and
6.00 AM.
v. Playing inside the residence premises is strictly prohibited and will incur disciplinary action when

v1.  Sports equipment should be returned back in good condition otherwise the cost of such equipment will be recovered from the individual concerned. Please make full use of the sports equipment and keep good health for the brave new world that awaits you.
38) ZERO TOLERANCE POLICY
• Violation of NDPS.
• Accommodating a day scholar in residence.
• Illegal stay in the residence.
• Willful use of false contact number and email ID.
• Indulging in physical violence & groupism.
• Missing classes while being in the residence.
• Unauthorised late entry - Second Instance (First Instance - Fine Rs.2000/-).
• Abuse of gender-specificspaces (washrooms).
• Conduct unbecoming of a student within the campus.
• Damaging the University assets.
• A resident who does not pay his/ her mess dues in the grace period in spite of a first and only reminder.

TO SUM UP:
The life at residence as you have seen from the above guidelines, certain values are pre-eminent like; trust, honesty and cooperation. XIM University stands for the primacy of the human person and the sacred value of human labour.11he residence  promotes  these through  a  mature

residence promotes these through a mature sensitivity to and concern for the needs of others. There is nothing automatic about the residence culture. Each year we have to recognize it and freely make it our own. Reaching out to others, creating a sense of belonging and building bridges among us that override divisions based on caste, creed, culture and language, demand constant and conscious efforts from all. XIM University will do its utmost to protect the students as long as they are on the right side of law. Do not over step your limits.
FORMS THAT NEED TO BE SUBMITTED
Kindly make sure that you have submitted the registration form (Annexure-I) along with all other forms and documents for the office reference of the Residence Prefect.
Please note that all the students are expected to adhere to the guidelines mentioned in the Residence guidelines. Breach of any one or more of its clauses will entitle the Prefect to take appropriate action against the students as per the decision of the Management.
Let us come together : to plant and not to uproot, to encourage and not to frustrate, to support and not tosabotage, to build and nottodestroy, knowing fully well that in building and strengthening the residences, we build our own career and future.

HELP US TO HELP YOU!
Residence Prefect






Dear Student,


XIM UNIVERSITY RESIDENCE REGISTRATION FORM

ANNEXURE	- I



Please read the following terms and conditions carefully before you occupy the room in the Students Residence. Your taking of possession of a room in the Residence is subject to your acceptance of thefollowing termsand conditionsalong with the rules framed under the GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENT STUDENTS.

RESIDENCE PREFECT
1, 	have read the rules and regulations for my admission into accommodation facilities of XIM University residence. I agree to abide by all the norms of the hostel as given in Guidelines.
• I agree not to indulge in groupism of any type and would live in harmony with others in the
residence.
• I declare that indulgence in any anti-institutional or anti-social activity in the residence is highly punishable and I will be liable for severe penalties and punishments for indulging in such acts.
• I declare that I am physically and medically fit to live in the residence. I also declare that
every information about my being medically / psychologically unfit in any degree or manner has been brought to the information of the University/Residence authorities at the time of applying for residence accommodation. I will not hold the management, university authorities, or the residence authorities responsible for any consequence which will be a result of my non-disclosure.
• I undertake to conduct myself as a diligent student within the residence and in the vicinity and not misbehave in any manner including using inappropriate language, physical tiffs and fights with the other inmates / employees / and others in the residence.
• I agree not to cook, not to use electric gadgets, ironing clothes in the residence rooms. I will not cause any damage whatsoever, including defacing the property of the residence and I understand that I will be liable for penalties and punishments for doing so. I will not damage any furniture or appearance of theroom allotted to me and will agree to pay for the damages if any.
• I accept to stay within the residence premises by the stipulated time and will not stay out
without proper prior permission from concerned authorities. I undertake to abide by all the rules that govern my stay in the residence and also all the changes to the rules that may be made from time to time.
• Finally, I agree to abide by all the rules and regulations of the University with regard to
residence stay, which may be framed from time to time and accept the decision of the

• In order to promote individual study in the living rooms, I shall ensure silence in the Residence, particularly in my room and shall not play loud music without using headphone nor shall carry on any activity which will affect the study atmosphere in the residence premises.
• I shall not allow any visitor to stay in my room, failing which I may be asked to vacate the
room and leave the Residence immediately.
• I shall not indulge in ragging, hooliganism or any kind of indiscipline in any form or involve myself in any kind of criminal activities including consumption of any kind of alcoholic drinks or intoxicating substance coming under the definition of NDPS Act in my room and
shall report such action of other students in other rooms to the residence authorities when it comes to my knowledge. The Residence Management Team will be at liberty to expel me without assigning any reasons whatsoever for such gross misconduct. In this regard, along with this form. If caught violating guidelines, I am ready to vacate the residence immediately and accept the decision taken by the university as final.
I hereby indemnify XIM University and its authorities, etc. from any loss or injury and damage to property during my stay in the campus which may arise due to natural calamities or any other acts, deeds or things, beyond the control of XIM University or its authority. I hereby agree to obey the rules and regulations framed in the guidelines for Resident Students.


DATE:	Signature of the Student

STUDENT INFORMATION

Student's Name:			 Ro11 No: 	Course: 	Batch: 	
DOB : 	Religion:	Mobile No: 		_

Father's Name: 	 Mobile No:---- Mother's Name: 		Mobile No:---- Parent's Email Id:			
Local Guardian's Name:------Mobile No: ----
Permanent/ContactAddress: 	




Details of major illness, (if any), during last 3 years : 		_

Date: 	Signature of Student 	




FOR OFFICE USE ONLY
Allotted Roo1nNun1ber 		Boys Block/ Girls Block Course: 		Roll No Batch ---- Room mate's Name: 					  Course : 	Roll No : 			Batch: 	

Annexure - II
ALCOHOL / DRUGS ABUSE DETERRENCE POLICY
XIM University has ZERO tolerance for possession, solicitation, distribution, sale or use of alcohol/drugs in the campus by thestudents.The students engaging in any of these shall be summarily expelled from XIM University.
This policy applies to all students in any time and any place on campus. By this policy, you are informed of the following. You may receive dismissal notice for any of the following offenc-es:
a. Alcohol/drngs useor possession on campus,
b. Alcohol/drngs use off campus which discredits or has the potential to dis credit XIM University.
On dismissal from XlM university, you can submit your written statement of explana­ tion, but regardless of the student's statement, the student shall be dismissed from XIM University and from the program.
On dismissal from XlM University, you may apply for readmission by paying penally of Rs.1,00,000/ - and providing sufficient and necessary information on the steps that you have taken lo undergo treatment for alcohol/drugs abuse de-addiction. Your readmission request must accompany Doctor's certification as proof of sufficient treatment for reducing alcohol dependency and abuse.
You will not be awarded Degree without paying penalty ofRs.1,00,000/- In implement­ ing this policy, you are given 24 hours lo comply with the following:
l.   To remove all alcohol/drugs in your possession on campus,
2. To commit yourself to a alcohol/drugs abuse free campus life by following the rules and regulations of the campus, which may be given to you from time to time.
We appreciate any voluntary reporting about any student who has past history of alcohol/drugs abuse. This information will be treated confidentially and will be used for the purpose of proposing de-addiction treatment of the student.
The readmission request of the student shall be made fonnally by an application along with Rs.1,00,000/- and upon receipt of this application, the students readmission re­ quest shall bedecided by the following committee and thedecision of thecommittee will befinal and binding:
1. Registrar
2. Dean, Academics
3. Coordinator Student affairs
This policy comes into effect from June, 2025. Vice-Chancellor
Commitment Towards Alcoholic Abuse Deterrence Policy
Thereby undertake to comply with the provisions of this policy. Tn case Tam found in violation of the same, any decision undertaken to implement the policy shall be binding and acceptable to me.
Signature of the Student : 	 Programme : 	 Batch & Roll No 	

Annexure - III
UNDERTAKING TOWARDS VIOLATION OF GUIDELINES
I.................................................................................................................................
S/O-D/0 ...................................................................................................................
Ms./Mr	bearing
Roll No......................................,have read and understood the consequences towards violation of residence GFRS for my admission I readmission into XIM University residence. I agree to abide by all the normsof the residence as given in GFRS. I will accept the decisions of University authorities, if found violating. I will not appeal.
Consequencesof Violation ofany GFRS
• Violation of any GFRS will result in cessation of Scholarship.
• Violation of any GFRS will result in not being a n1en1ber and PoR or PoC of any student con1mittee.
• Violation of any GFRS will result in not being awarded Good Conduct Certificate.
Violationsthat result in informationtoparents &immediate removal from
residence
• Violation ofNDPS
• Accommodating a day scholar in residence
• Illegal stay in the residence
• Wilful use of false contact nun1ber and email iD.
• indulging in physical violence & groupisn1
• Missing classes while being in the residence
• Unauthorize.d lateentry- Second instance (First instance - FineRs.2000/-)
• Abuse of gender-specific spaces (washrooms)
• inappropriate public display of affection (PDA) within the ca1npus
• Damaging the university assets
• A resident who does not pay his/ her mess dues in the grace period in spite of a first and only reminder.
Declaration by the Parents	Signatureby the Student I assure that my ward will abide by the rules and regulations of the residence as per the GFRS. I have no objection if my ward isexpelled from the residence for violating any of the rules. I will not press for appeal. I hereby undertake that I will cooperate with University Authorities and
will beavailable on call and promise to visit and take care of my ward, as and when required.


Place
Contact No-

Date
Email Id-

Signature

Annexure-IV


UG Resident Identity Card Application Form

1. NAMEINFULL(CAPITALLETTER):
2. STUDENT ROLL NO :

3. STUDENT MOBILE:

4. ADDRESS:
5. BATCH:
6. EMERGENCY CONTACT DETAILS :





FOR OFFICE USE ONLY





VALIDUPTO

DATE OF ISSUE

Seal &Signature

Annexure V
FRETBOX
UG RESIDENT BIOMETRIC
ATTENDANCE	UNDERTAKING

• STUDENT'S NAME: 	_

•SCHOOL:	 ROLL NO/XUID:		_
• PARENTS' NAME:
(Father)	
(Mother)	
• Email-ID (Parent's): 	_
• PARENT'S CONTACT DETAILS (WhatsApp) Aadhar Link Number.
(Father/Mother any one contact
details)	

NB: I hereby confirm my ward will comply with the biometric protocol during his/her stay in XIM University Residence & will diligently use the FretBox App. The accuracy of the aforementioned information has been provided to the best of my knowledge. If any discrepancies or inaccuracies are discovered, the student may face disciplinary action in accordance with the "zero-tolerance policy" of GFRS.

Relationship with the student (   )
FATHER MOTHER


Parent's Signature : 	_


Date:

DD MM	YR


Annexure VI
FRETBOX
RESIDENT  UNDERTAKING

• STUDENT'S NAME: 	_

• SCHOOL:	 ROLL NO/XUID:		_
• PARENTS' NAME:
(Father)	
(Mother)	_
• Email-ID (Parent's): 	_
• PARENT'S CONTACT DETAILS (WhatsApp) Aadhar Link Number.
(Father/Mother any one contact
details)	

NB: I hereby confirm my ward will comply with the biometric protocol during his/her stay in XIM University Residence & will diligently use the FretBox App. The accuracy of the aforementioned information has been provided to the best of my knowledge. If any discrepancies or inaccuracies are discovered, the student may face disciplinary action in accordance with the "zero-tolerance policy" of UG residence guidelines.
Relationship with the student (	)
Parent's Signature FATHER MOTHER
DD	MM	YR
Date: 	 			

XIM UNIVERSITYBHUBANESWAR
Plot No:12(A), Harirajpur, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 752050 UG RESIDENCE READMISSION FORM
Student's  Name:............................................ Roll  No:...........
Course: ................................. Year of Study ...............
DOB:  ..................... Religion:  ..........Mobile No.................
Father's  Name: ......................................Mobile  No................
Mother's Name: .....................................Mobile  No: .............
Parent's     Email     id:.......................................................
Local Guardian's name: ...................... Mobile No: ..............
Pennanent   address:....................................................


Details of major illness, (if any), during last 3 years:
Payment details of Hostel Fees:	Paid	Not paid Receipt No: Any disciplina1y action (like undertaking,suspension fi·om resi-




MESS DUES PAID/NOT PAID: Specify the amount: Signature andseal of the Mess Vendor
Signature of Student Date:

UGACADEMIC SESSION 2025 - 2026
I,
have read the rules and regulations for my admission into accommodation facilities ofXIM University UG Residence. I agree to abide by all the norms of the residence as given in Residence Guidelines.
• I agree not to indulge in groupism of any type and would live in har­ mony with others in the residence. I understand that smoking, con­ sumption of alcohol and other objectionable material in the residence is strictly prohibited and I will abstain from such acts.
• I declare that indulgence in any anti-institutional or anti-social activity in the residence is highly punishable and I will be liable for severe pen­ alties and punish1nents for indulging in such acts.
• I declare that I a1n physically and medically fit to live in the residence. I also declare that every infonnation about1ny being medically/ psycho­ logically unfit in anydegree or1nanner has been brought to the informa­ tion of the University authorities at the time of applying for residence accommodation. I will not hold the University authorities or the Resi­ dence authorities responsible for any consequence which will be a re­ sult of my non-disclosure.
• I undertake to conduct myself as a diligent student within the residence and in thevicinity and will not misbehave in any manner including using inappropriate language, physical tiffs and fights,vith the other inn1ates
/ en1ployees / and others in the residence.
• l agree not to cook, not to use electric gadgets, ironing clothes in the residence room and will not involve n1yself with anycorrunercial activi­ ties. l will not cause any dan1age whatsoever, including defacing the property of the residence and l understand that l will be liable for penal­ ties and punishments for doing so. I will not damage any furniture or appearance of the room allotted to me and will agree to pay for the damages if any.
• I agree upon the Residence biometric attendance rules through sug­ gested app FretBox and follow the leave/outing protocol accordingly.
• I accept to be the member of the UG Mess & follow the mess rules until l officially vacate the residence for which l 1nust deposit the required amount (which will beinti1nated in due time) upfront at the time of read- 1nission. l also undertake that l will not ask for refund if I1niss the mess facility at any point of time for n1y absence at the residence for n1y personal reason. I hereby confirm that l will access the assigned dining areas (Student's Mess) as per my allotment in the respective residential building.
• I also hereby undertake that; I will not bring any pet animals into the

dining hall or encourage such practice either in the mess or in the resi­ dence. I will accept any disciplinary action taken against me including suspension/expulsion from the residence as well as from university, if found encouraging such practice at any point of time.
• I accept to be within the residence premises by the stipulated time and will not stay outside without prior permission from the concerned au­ thorities. I undertake that I will attend my classes and every academic and extracurricular event in the University and the Residence regularly during my stay at the residence.
• I agree to pay ten months fee ofRs 4035/-(per month) towards minimum mess charges in three instalhnents directly to the mess vendor for the academic year 2025-2026 and follow the n1ess ntles.
• I agree to abide by all the rules and regulations of the University & GFRS with regard to residence stay, which may be framed fron1tin1e to tin1e and accept the decision of the 1nanagement in all respects as final and binding on me for compliance.
• Finally, I undertake that University or Residence Administration can penalize me including suspension and expulsion from the Residence as well as University tor any misconduct and violation ofRcsidcnc.c Guide­ lines by me at any point of time pending inquiry with UDC.


Signatureof Student:
Declarationby the Parents
I assure that my ward will abide by the rules and regulations of the residence as per the GFRS and re-admission form. I have no objection if my ward is expelled from the residence for violating any of the rules.

Place: -------	Date: ------

Signature of Parent






Room No 	

For Office Use Only
Roommate's Name 	



Roll No:--

	 Condition of the room: 	


Signature of the Caretaker Team	Signature of PREFECT/ RMT

ANTI RAGGING COMMITTEE

Coordinator: ProfVVijayKumar Members:
Coordinator, StudentActivities-PGPrograms Coordinator, Student Activities-UG Programs Chairperson, University Discipline Committee Dean, Xavier Law School
Dean, School of Commerce
Student Representatives (SEC Members)

NOTICE
RAGGING ISA
CRIMINAL OFFENCE


SAY NO TO RAGGING
What is Ragging ?


To Whom to Report
PROF. V. VIJAY KUMAR
(Coordl.natot, Anti Ragging Committee)
cootd1nator.i,,c@•lm.edu.ln
PROF SASHIKANTA KHUNTIA
(Coordjnator • Student Activities • PG &
Chairperson, University Discipline Committee)
c&a•p9@xim.edu.in I &a&hikanta@xim.edu.in
PROF LOURDES VIJAYAN R
(Coordinator • Student Activities • UGI
csa-ug@xlm.edu.ln I loudes@xfm.edu,ln
PROF. NARAYAN CH. SARANGI
(DHn • Xavier L.ew School)
deanxl-s@idm.edu,ln
PROF. P.K. MOHANTY
(Dean • School of Commerce)
deansoc@xlm.edu.ln
MR. PRASANTA KUMAR MOHAPATRA
prashant@xim.edu.in
MR. JULIOUS SAMANTRAY
juUou.g-@xim.edu,ln
MR. RANJAN SWAIN
ranfan@xlm.edu.ln
MR. PRIYA RANJAN BHOI
priyaranjan@xlm.edu.ln
OR. ARPITA JENA
arpitaj@xim.edu,in
MS. PRANATI SINGH
pranati@,cim.edu.in
MS. MONALISA RATH
mrath@,cim.edu.in


0 807	228	0433

0 986 151 9192


0 948 778 7185

08511119113

0 9437105215

0 993 742 2211
0 993 790 3090
0 700 869 3479
0 953 412 5750
0 943 796 6840
0 637 102 1279
0 832 890 9787























1:£DJ11li 1'!111il1f I J




'l i lLll l lLIJlL I O IJ I [ I 11Jr I  [1111 ll 
)Ill I II·I Ii J JLilDI I ll I ll	ILI II I  II I Jt:J&LJ
• 



2----lli§b I I,

,r IMCJU LI 5


